Corporate responsibility
At UBS, corporate responsibility means “doing the right thing” – both now and in the future. Our commitment to this
is incorporated in the principles and standards set out in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code). These apply
to all aspects of our business and the ways in which we engage with our stakeholders, from the products and services
we offer our clients, our management of environmental and social risks, to the way we protect the well-being of
our ­employees. Corporate responsibility is embedded at every level of the firm, helping us to adopt a responsible and
sustainable approach to doing business while underlining our desire to contribute to the communities in which we
operate.

ples and standards set out in the Code shape our business activities and all our dealings with our stakeholders including clients,
colleagues, shareholders, regulators and business partners. Proper
implementation of the Code contributes to the wider societal
goal of sustainable development. Policies and guidelines, as well
as associated objectives related to this aspiration, are guided and
supervised at the highest level of the firm. We demonstrate accountability for our corporate responsibility commitments and
activities at both Board of Directors (BoD) and Group Executive
Board (GEB) levels.
➔➔Refer to www.ubs.com/responsibility for more information

Corporate governance, responsibility
and compensation

The successful delivery of our corporate responsibility commitments and activities relies on the firm conviction that, above all,
we must conduct our business in a sustainable way. We have
made good on this belief over the course of our over 150-year
history and have demonstrated resilience in the face of the many
political, economic and regulatory changes and challenges that
have come to pass during this period.
We understand that to be taken seriously as a responsible corporate citizen takes time, and that a solid and proven track record
counts for more than a series of quick wins. We have such a track
record, as described in the following section. The guiding princi-

%QTRQTCVGTGURQPUKDKNKV[CV7$5

%QTRQTCVGTGURQPUKDKNKV[

%QFGQH$WUKPGUU%QPFWEVCPF'VJKEU

.GICNCPFTGIWNCVQT[TGURQPUKDKNKVKGU
%QORNKCPEGYKVJNCYU
TWNGUCPFTGIWNCVKQPU
%QODCVKPIƂPCPEKCNETKOG
6CZEQORNKCPEG

'VJKECNTGURQPUKDKNKVKGU
'VJKECNUVCPFCTFU
1WTXCNWGU
(CKTPGUUCPFKPVGITKV[
KPENKGPVTGNCVKQPU

9QTMRNCEGTGURQPUKDKNKVKGU
4GURQPUKDNGGORNQ[OGPVRTCEVKEGU
&KXGTUKV[CPFGSWCNQRRQTVWPKV[
*GCNVJCPFUCHGV[

5QEKGVCNTGURQPUKDKNKVKGU
'PXKTQPOGPV
*WOCPTKIJVU
4GURQPUKDNGUWRRN[EJCKP
%QOOWPKV[KPXGUVOGPV

%QOOWPKECVKQPUVTCKPKPICPFCYCTGPGUUTCKUKPI


283

Corporate governance, responsibility and compensation
Corporate responsibility

Working with our clients towards a better society
Our clients care deeply about societal
issues and want to use their resources
for the benefit and advancement of
individuals, communities and societies
around the globe. They are increasingly
focused on issues such as the maintenance of functioning infrastructures,
the impact of climate change, the
strains imposed by demographic shifts,
the growth in inequalities, and the
provision of education, jobs and
healthcare for all.
As a global firm, and the world’s largest
wealth manager, we are in a unique
­position to help our clients address their
societal concerns. As their trusted financial
advisor, we recognize this responsibility
and take it seriously. For a long time, we
have been helping them to invest
according to sustainable and responsible
criteria. Building on this capability, in 2013
we made a significant commitment to
maximize these efforts through a dedicated, industry-leading platform. This will
deliver comprehensive research, advisory
and product capabilities in sustainable
investments and philanthropy, and is
currently under development. While we
have always provided such offerings,
it is our objective to do this holistically,
channeling a growing percentage of
assets, through innovative financial
mechanisms, to address societal challenges and make societal performance
part of every client conversation.
To date, 24% of our assets are already
invested according to sustainable and
socially responsible investment criteria, as
illustrated in the ”SRI invested assets”
table in ”Investment products” in this
section. We want this to increase, in

284

particular through developing innovative
solutions. In 2013, a key example
included our ground-breaking Impact
Investing Private Equity fund for small
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in
emerging and frontier markets. This
provides our clients with yet more
opportunities to direct their investments
and address social and environmental
challenges. Client focus is also a crucial
component of our climate change
strategy. In 2013, we made progress in
several areas, including through the
environmental optimization of our Global
Real Estate investment portfolios, by
offering the “Energy check-up for SMEs”
to Swiss SMEs, and through our innovative UBS Clean Energy Infrastructure
Switzerland fund for our institutional
clients, enabling them to invest in
renewable energy infrastructures.
We also continue to provide thought
leadership in this area through our
leading research capabilities and our
active involvement in discussions on key
societal topics. In 2013, an important
example was the collaboration of
environmental, social and governance
(ESG) research experts in Wealth Management, Global Asset Management and
the Investment Bank on one of our
flagship publications, the “UBS Research
Focus.” Recognizing growing client
interest in sustainable investing, this
publication explored sustainability issues
and demonstrated how a well-considered
sustainability approach can add real value
to a client’s portfolio. As a second major
example, we co-launched the Thun
Group of Banks’ discussion paper on
banking and human rights, which
examines the ways in which our industry

can effectively implement the UN’s
Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights.
Our own efforts towards the sustainable
development of societies and communities, including our community investment and employee volunteering
activities focused on education and
entrepreneurship, complement our
client-focused platform. Our response to
the devastation in the Philippines caused
by Typhoon Haiyan demonstrates our
unique and integrated approach. UBS
Community Affairs and the UBS Optimus
Foundation joined forces, including both
clients and employees in our firm’s
matched-giving schemes. This resulted in
a combined (client and UBS) commitment of more than CHF 3 million in
financial contributions. While the UBS
Optimus Foundation established a Rapid
Response Emergency Fund to provide
immediate essential supplies to children
and families in the hardest hit and most
remote areas, contributions will also be
used for the longer-term reconstruction
and development efforts that must
follow.
We aim to work with, and for, our clients
towards a better society. The spirit and
ambition of our client-focused approach
is aimed at helping our clients express
their values and achieve both financial
and societal benefits. We will continue to
expand our capabilities in order to
provide our clients with an industry-leading and integrated range of sustainability
and impact investment products and
services, which will enable them to
continue to invest with societal goals in
mind.

Corporate responsibility governance
The BoD is responsible for setting our firm’s values and standards
and ensuring that we meet our obligations to our stakeholders.
Both the Chairman of the BoD and the Group Chief Executive
Officer (Group CEO) play a key role in safeguarding our reputation and ensuring that we communicate effectively with all our
stakeholders.
All BoD committees are focused on achieving our goal of creating sustainable value. Of the BoD committees, the Corporate Responsibility Committee shoulders the main undertaking for corporate responsibility. As set out in the committee’s charter, it actively reviews and assesses how we meet the existing and evolving
corporate responsibility expectations of our stakeholders. It also
monitors and reviews our corporate responsibility policies and
regulations, the implementation of our activities and commitments, as well as regularly reviewing the Code.
➔➔Refer to the UBS Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at
www.ubs.com/code for more information
➔➔Refer to the Organization Regulations of UBS at
www.ubs.com/governance for the charter of the Corporate
Responsibility Committee

In 2013, Wolfgang Mayrhuber, Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, announced his intention to leave the BoD
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The Committee is newly chaired by Axel A. Weber, Chairman of the BoD,
has three additional members and is advised by a panel of GEB
members, consisting of the Group CEO and all regional chief executive officers.

The GEB is responsible for the development and implementation of our Group and business division strategies, including those
pertaining to corporate responsibility. At or directly below GEB
level, there are various committees and boards responsible for
tasks and activities relating to particular aspects of corporate responsibility, including the Global Environmental & Social Risk
Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, which shapes
UBS’s position on controversial activities and related policies. Additionally, our Environmental & Human Rights Committee oversees the operational execution of UBS’s Environmental and Human Rights Policy, which was revised in 2014 to incorporate
recent commitments made in the areas of climate change and
human rights.
➔➔Refer to www.ubs.com/environment for more information on
our environmental and human rights governance

The GEB monitors our efforts to combat money laundering,
corruption and terrorist financing. These efforts are led by the
Head of Global Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Compliance and
supported by a network of compliance experts. The GEB also
monitors the implementation of our diversity and inclusion-related strategies and plans for each business division. Our global diversity and inclusion team supports senior management and human resources business partners in developing these plans.
➔➔Refer to the “Our employees” section of this report for more
information on labor standards and diversity programs

The Global Community Affairs Steering Committee is chaired
by the Group CEO and composed of several members of our senior management. This GEB-level committee sets the overall strategic direction and goals of our community affairs. In addition, it
Corporate governance, responsibility
and compensation

Our approach

1WTEQTRQTCVGTGURQPUKDKNKV[IQXGTPCPEGRTQEGUU
%QTRQTCVG4GURQPUKDKNKV[%QOOKVVGG

#IGPFC
&QEWOGPVCVKQP
2TQRQUCNHQTCEVKQP
'ZVGTPCN
GZRGTVU

%QTRQTCVGTGURQPUKDKNKV[OCPCIGOGPV

%QTRQTCVG4GURQPUKDKNKV[%QOOKVVGGCFXKUQT[RCPGN

#EVKQP

0GVYQTMQH
KPVGTPCNGZRGTVU

9GCNVJ/CPCIGOGPV

9GCNVJ/CPCIGOGPV
#OGTKECU

/CPFCVG
HQTCEVKQP

#FXKEG

4GVCKN%QTRQTCVG

)NQDCN#UUGV
/CPCIGOGPV

+PXGUVOGPV
$CPM

%QTRQTCVG
%GPVGT


285

Corporate governance, responsibility and compensation
Corporate responsibility

is ultimately responsible for determining our response to worldwide disasters. In 2014, this committee will be integrated in the
Corporate Responsibility Committee, and its advisory panel, to
ensure further alignment.
➔➔Refer to “Our communities” in this section for more information
on our charitable and related activities

Our commitment to responsible banking requires us to undertake regular and critical assessments of our policies and practices.
This, in turn, requires the careful consideration and assessment of
societal issues of potential relevance to UBS. With committees
focused on corporate responsibility topics and issues at both BoD
and GEB level, we demonstrate that we have firmly established
responsibility for, and supervision of, this important and complex
task at the highest levels of the firm.
External commitments and initiatives
We are committed to engaging in external corporate responsibility initiatives. These support us in our efforts to advance in areas
that are already mandated by government and regulators, as well
as in areas that, while still largely voluntary, are nonetheless of
significance in strengthening our corporate responsibility agenda.
In October 2013, we co-launched the Thun Group of Banks’
discussion paper on banking and human rights. The Thun Group
is an informal group of representatives from seven banks, with the
name derived from the location (the UBS conference center in the
Swiss city of Thun) where the group met to share experiences and
ideas regarding the implementation of the UN’s Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights. The paper is the result of these
discussions. It aims to support banks in mapping and analyzing
their potentially adverse impacts on human rights, and also looks
at related risks, including reputational, legal, operational and financial risks. The work of the Thun Group is reflected in our environmental and human rights policy framework.
External ratings, assurance and awards
Our performance and success in the area of sustainability is reflected in the key external ratings and rankings we have achieved.
In 2013, we re-entered the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI)
from which we had been removed in 2012, as our score was just
below the raised benchmark. This followed continuous inclusion in
the DJSI since their launch in 1999. At the time, the DJSI were the
first global indices to track the financial performance of the leading
sustainability-driven companies worldwide. The DJSI follow a bestin-class approach and include companies from across all industries
that outperform their peers in numerous sustainability metrics.
We have been a member of the FTSE4Good index series since
its inception, and have also been awarded corporate responsibility
prime status by oekom research, one of the world’s leading sustainability rating agencies. According to oekom’s corporate rating
system, prime status is awarded to companies that are among the
leaders in their industry and that meet industry-specific minimum
requirements. We were also ranked among the top 20 financial
institutions in the CDP Global 500 Climate Change Report 2013.
286

We received several honors in the 11th annual Thomson Reuters Extel / UKSIF Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) & Sustainability Survey of over 500 investment professionals from 27 countries. The UBS Investment Bank ESG & Sustainability Team was
ranked third overall for ESG and SRI, including second for Corporate Governance and for Renewable Energy, fourth for Climate
Change and for Thematic Research, and fifth for SRI Research.
Stakeholder dialogue
We regularly engage with our stakeholders on a wide range of
topics which gives us important information about their expectations and concerns. This leads to a more in-depth understanding
of issues relevant to our firm and their management. Our relationship with stakeholders is multi-faceted and includes interactions
with large groups, regular communications with representatives
from a particular group, as well as meetings with individuals (for
example, clients and investors). In 2013, we also undertook an
analysis of the issues deemed relevant to our stakeholders. The
results of this analysis are reflected in a materiality matrix as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The matrix distils the
views of the stakeholders with which our firm interacts and covers
20 topics including financial stability, risk behavior and culture,
operational efficiency and resilience, environmental protection
and climate change, and society and community.
In 2013, we engaged with experts and stakeholders on a range
of topics. These included discussions with clients on values-based
investing, including those taking place at the 2013 UBS Global
Philanthropy Forum. Over 100 clients from around the world
spent two days discussing how they can help to narrow the gender gap and ensure equal educational and employment opportunities for girls and women.
Discussions with employees covered various sustainability topics, including energy. A key annual campaign, the UBS Environmental Month in April, again raised awareness among employees
and external stakeholders about our efforts towards reducing the
environmental impact of our operations and banking activities.
Working together with investors and rating agencies, we also
considered key environmental, social and governance topics such
as climate change. Discussions with non-governmental organizations focused on the subjects of reputational risks, controversial
weapons, food “speculation” as well as climate change, particularly in relation to coal. In addition, we sought input from our
employees regarding our corporate responsibility strategy and
associated activities. An internal, cross-divisional and cross-regional network of experts continues to play an important role,
with its members providing critical input on stakeholder expectations and concerns. These contributions are relayed back to the
Corporate Responsibility Committee and provide a very valuable
addition to information gathered through other monitoring
channels.
We believe it is crucial that we keep our stakeholders informed
about our sustainability commitments and activities. To this end,
we include sections in our Annual Report 2013 that are dedicated
to “Corporate responsibility” and “Our employees.” The content

➔➔Refer to www.ubs.com/gri for more information
➔➔Refer to www.ubs.com/materiality for the GRI materiality matrix

Training and raising awareness
We actively engage in internal and external education and awareness-raising training on corporate responsibility topics and issues.
Through induction, education and broader awareness-raising activities, we ensure that our employees understand their responsibilities in complying with our policies and the importance of our
societal commitments. General information is published on our
intranet and on our corporate responsibility website. In 2013,
training and awareness-raising activities for employees continued
to embrace the Code, notably through induction events for all
new employees. Employees were also made aware of the firm’s
corporate responsibility strategy and activities through other
training and awareness-raising activities. Some 9,271 employees
received training on environmental issues, of which 7,136 received general training on our environmental policy and programs
and 2,135 participated in specialist training targeted within their
area of expertise and influence. Employee speaker sessions, exhibitions and lunchtime training sessions were delivered in all regions alongside specific technical training for the regional environmental teams. Community Affairs engagement forms part of
our key internal leadership programs, while skills-based employee
volunteering further contributes towards staff development. Employees are also required to undergo regular refresher training
sessions in AML-related issues. This includes online training,
awareness campaigns and seminars.
➔➔Refer to “Education and development” in the “Our employees”
section of this report for more information

Our clients
We are focused on gaining and retaining the trust of our stakeholders, as well as achieving our goal of generating sustainable
earnings and creating long-term shareholder value. In addition,
we are constantly striving to ensure that our products and services
are suited to the needs and requirements of our clients. Through
our corporate responsibility efforts, we demonstrate that we are
not only listening to our stakeholders, but also aiming to be in an
industry-leading position and meet their expectations.
Combating financial crime
We continue to further strengthen our efforts to prevent and
combat financial crime. Our commitment to assisting in the fight
against money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing is illustrated by the way we take responsibility in our own operations,
aiming to help preserve the integrity of the financial system. We
employ a rigorous risk-based approach to ensure our policies and
procedures are able to detect risks and effectively manage those
risks, including, for example, managing relationships which are

classified as higher risk with increased scrutiny. We adhere to strict
know-your-client regulations without undermining our clients’ legitimate right to privacy. Ongoing due diligence and monitoring,
including the use of advanced technology to help identify transaction patterns or unusual dealings, assists in the identification of
suspicious activities. If suspicious activities are discovered, they are
promptly escalated to management or control functions and externally, as required.
During 2013, Global AML Compliance worked closely with the
Environmental and Social Risk group to further develop effective
ways of screening potential business partners, vendors and clients
with regards to potential issues relating to environmental and social
risk, building on the work already carried out during previous years.
In 2011, all business divisions were required to perform a legal
and compliance risk assessment. This comprehensive process,
which included an assessment of corruption, sanction and AML
risks, was forward-looking and included follow-up actions to
highlight the priorities and objectives for each business division.
This risk assessment did not identify any significant incidents of
non-compliance with our AML, sanctions or anti-corruption policies. Additional risk assessments that have taken place since then
have confirmed this view. Nonetheless, a number of initiatives we
have in place continue to strengthen our defenses against UBS
being used for criminal purposes. In addition, over the course of
2014 we will continue to revise our risk assessment framework in
a manner that further focuses on key risks and controls.
As part of our extensive and ongoing efforts to prevent money
laundering, corruption and terrorist financing, our internal global
AML policies were reviewed in 2011 and enhancements to address more specific risks in relation to corruption, sanctions and
money laundering were implemented globally. In 2012, we also
reviewed and amended our approach to controversial weapons in
order to comply with the Swiss law that came into effect on
1 February 2013. This law implements the international bans on
the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of cluster munitions
and anti-personnel mines.

1WTGPXKTQPOGPVCNCPFJWOCPTKIJVURQNKE[

Corporate governance, responsibility
and compensation

of these sections, other relevant annual report text and data and
information on our website are reviewed by EY, according to the
Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.

'PXKTQPOGPVCNCPFJWOCPTKIJVURQNKE[

4KUMOCPCIGOGPV

$WUKPGUU
QRRQTVWPKVKGU

1WTGORNQ[GGU

1WTQRGTCVKQPU

/CPCIGOGPVU[UVGOCPFFKUENQUWTGKPFGRGPFGPVN[XGTKƂGF

6TCKPKPICPFKPVGTPCNEQOOWPKECVKQP

%4
287

Corporate governance, responsibility and compensation
Corporate responsibility

We are a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an association of 11 global banks established in 2000, which aims to develop
financial services industry standards and related products for knowyour-client, AML and counter-terrorist financing policies. Alongside
the other members of this group, we continue to work closely with
the Financial Action Task Force, an intergovernmental body that develops and promotes national and international policies to combat
money laundering and terrorist financing through consultation within the private sector.
We will act decisively to prevent potentially irresponsible or harmful actions by individuals. First and foremost, this means that our
employees must uphold the law, adhere to relevant regulations, and
behave in a responsible and principled manner. To this effect, our
business processes and control mechanisms are constantly under review in order to enhance our prevention capabilities.

–– Transaction due diligence: before proceeding with a transaction, environmental and social risks are identified and analyzed
as part of standard transaction due diligence processes.
–– Product development: new financial products and services are
reviewed before their launch in order to assess their compatibility and consistency with UBS’s environmental and human
rights principles.
–– Supply chain management: prior to any new or renewed contract being awarded, standardized checks are completed to assess supplier- and commodity-specific environmental, labor
and human rights risks.
–– Own operations: our operational activities and employees, or
contractors working on UBS premises, are assessed for compliance with relevant environmental, health and safety and labor
rights regulations.

Managing environmental and social risks
We apply a risk framework to all of our transactions, products, services and activities in order to identify and manage potential adverse
impacts to the environment and to human rights, as well as the associated environmental and social risks to which our clients’ and our
own assets are exposed. Environmental and social (including human
rights) risks are broadly defined as the possibility of UBS suffering
reputational or financial harm from transactions, products, services
or activities such as lending, capital raising, advisory services or investments that involve a party associated with environmentally or
socially sensitive activities. For products, services and activities identified as potentially posing significant environmental and social risks,
procedures and tools for the identification, assessment, escalation
and monitoring of such risks are applied and integrated into standard risk, compliance and operations processes:
–– Client on-boarding or conflict clearance: new corporate clients
are assessed for environmental and social risks associated with
their business activities.

Business or control functions are responsible for identifying
and assessing environmental and social risks as part of the client,
supplier or transaction due diligence processes. Where these
functions determine the existence of potential material risks, they
refer the client, supplier or transaction to a specialized environmental and social risk unit for enhanced due diligence. To support
the consistent identification and assessment of such risks, our internal industry sector guidelines provide an overview of key environmental and human rights issues that arise in the various life
cycles of the sector, and summarize industry standards in dealing
with them. These guidelines currently cover six sectors: chemicals,
forestry products and biofuels, infrastructure, metals and mining,
oil and gas, and utilities. If identified risks are believed to pose
potentially significant environmental or social risks, they are escalated for approval to senior management, at divisional, regional,
or group level, depending on their significance. We have defined
controversial activities in which we will not engage, such as providing financial services to extractive industries, heavy infrastruc-

Environmental and social risk assessments
For the year ended

% change from

31.12.13

31.12.12

31.12.11

31.12.12

FS2

1,716

1,039

416

65

Americas

FS2

367

288

111

27

Asia Pacific

FS2

296

222

136

33

Europe, Middle East and Africa

FS2

373

225

119

66

Switzerland

FS2

680

304

50

124

Wealth Management

FS2

298

157

59

90

Wealth Management Americas

FS2

46

5

5

820

Retail & Corporate

FS2

598

223

22

168

Global Asset Management

FS2

14

12

Investment Bank

FS2

657

533

Corporate Center 3

FS2

103

109

GRI 1
Cases referred for assessment 2
by region

by business division

17
330

23
(6)

Global Reporting Initiative (see also www.globalreporting.org). FS stands for the Performance Indicators defined in the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement.   2 Transactions and onboarding requests referred to
and assessed by environmental and social risk functions.   3 Relates to procurement / sourcing of products and services.

1

288

ture, forestry and plantation operations that risk severe environmental damage to endangered species, high-conservation value
forests and world heritage sites. They also include all commercial
activities that engage in child or forced labor, or threaten indigenous peoples’ rights.
An enhanced due diligence and approval process is triggered for
areas in which we will only provide financial services under stringent, pre-established guidelines. Such areas include palm oil production, mountaintop removal as a coal extraction method, hydraulic fracturing as an exploration or extraction method for oil and
gas, and exploration and development of oil sands. Enhanced due
diligence includes an assessment of the company’s regulatory compliance, past and present environmental performance records, as
well as concerns from stakeholder groups.

sions intended to drive positive change. Our services also include
sustainable portfolio management, such as mandate solutions
and separately managed accounts for private clients and institutions with a strong focus on sustainability across all asset classes.
In the US, we also offer managed accounts with environmental,
social and governance criteria (sourced from third-party data provider MSCI) embedded into private clients’ fundamental investment process, enabling them to identify and exclude securities
based on issue-oriented screens.
For institutional clients, Global Asset Management offers customized portfolios in the form of segregated mandates and institutional accounts that allow clients to define and exclude certain
controversial stocks or sectors due to their perceived social or environmental impact.

position on relationships with clients and suppliers associated
with controversial activities”

Clients, transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of UBS’s
position, or otherwise subject to significant environmental and human rights controversies, are identified as part of UBS’s know-yourclient compliance processes. Advanced data analytics on companies associated with such risks are integrated into the web-based
compliance tool used by our staff before they enter into a client or
supplier relationship, or a transaction. The systematic nature of this
tool significantly enhances our ability to identify potential reputational risk as is evidenced by the high number of cases referred for
assessment to our environmental and social risk units since 2012.
➔➔Refer to the table “Environmental and social risk assessments” in
this section for more information

Sustainable products and services
By integrating environmental and social considerations into our advisory, research, investment, finance and ownership processes
across all of our businesses, we provide financial products and
services which help our clients benefit from environmentally and
socially related business opportunities. This is particularly the case
in relation to climate change, where our activities focus on our
client-centric activities of risk management, investment, financing
and research.
➔➔Refer to “Our climate change commitment” in this section for
more information on related business initiatives

Investment advisory
We offer investment advisory services for wealth management
and institutional clients, helping them to consider the potential
social and environmental impacts, as well as the potential financial returns, of their investments. Our philanthropy and sustainable investing teams have continued to develop the holistic service offered within our wealth management businesses. These
teams provide thought leadership, advice, products and solutions
to existing and prospective private clients who wish to make investments in accordance with their own personal values. These
services also extend to aiding philanthropic or investment deci-

Research
We produce award-winning research on the impact of environmental, social and governance issues on various sectors and companies. Our specialized teams have regularly published research
on topics that will shape our future, including climate change,
energy efficiency, resource scarcity and demographics. Our experience and sector knowledge help us to determine what is material
by raising questions about the effect environmental, social and
governance issues are having on the competitive landscape for
the global sectors we cover, as well as about how companies are
affected in relative terms. Increasing client demand for integrating
sustainability issues into fundamental investment analysis is reflected in our publications and client conferences:
–– In 2013, one of the flagship publications of UBS Wealth Management, “UBS Research Focus,”was produced in collaboration with research teams in Global Asset Management and the
Investment Bank. Entitled “Sustainable investing,” it discussed
how sustainability considerations are increasingly incorporated into investment decisions.
–– Our UBS Q-Series® reports focus on thought-provoking discussions on pivotal investment questions, and on making clear
investment conclusions, leading to a Group-wide drive for
more thoughtful, proprietary and valuable research. Examples
of Q-Series® reports published in 2013 include “Human capital
– Corporate culture: Relevant to investors?” and “Global energy markets: How much oil in the US transport sector can be
displaced by cheap US natural gas?” Other publications focused on nutrition (“Nutrition: Access and traceability”) and
on sustainable innovation (“Integration – global sustainability
and cultural change”).
–– Our newly established publication, “ESG Keys,” addresses the
what, how and why of ESG issues and sustainability investment styles. Reports in 2013 addressed corporate governance,
human capital, and energy and climate change.
–– The UBS European Conference hosted a number of panels on
sustainability issues, featuring experts and UBS research analysts, such as “The great sustainability debate,” “Human capital – driving returns” and “Energy: prospects and challenges
for fracking.”
289

Corporate governance, responsibility
and compensation

➔➔Refer to www.ubs.com/responsibility for the complete “UBS

Corporate governance, responsibility and compensation
Corporate responsibility

–– Our outreach and dialogue programs included a three-year partnership with the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment
at the University of Oxford, with which UBS hosted a series of
events between 2011 and 2013, open to both UBS clients and
employees, and featuring thought leaders from around the globe.
Investment products
Global Asset Management is committed to environmental, social
and governance integration and has been a signatory to the United
Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) since
2009. These provide a voluntary framework according to which all
investors can take into account environmental, social and governance issues in their decision-making and ownership practices and
align their objectives with the broader objectives of society.
Global Asset Management offers a range of sustainable investment funds that integrate material sustainability factors with a rigorous fundamental investment process. We apply the concept of
shared value, according to which companies that pursue sustainability practices (for example, conserving resources, maintaining a

high-quality workforce and a strong supply chain) not only create
value for the shareholder but also for a wider range of stakeholders. Our investment themes include energy efficiency, environment, social and healthcare, and demographics. We also manage
four exchange-traded funds which track MSCI’s Socially Responsible Indices and are listed on the Deutsche Börse (Xetra), the SIX
Swiss Exchange and the London and Milan Stock Exchanges.
Through our open architecture, we also offer our wealth management clients the opportunity to invest in socially responsible
investment bonds, equity and microﬁnance products from leading
third-party providers. As of 31 December 2013, invested assets
held in socially responsible investments (SRI) totaled CHF 576 billion, representing 24% of our total invested assets. Throughout
2013, invested assets in all of our SRI classes increased. In particular assets that are subject to UBS’s policy pertaining to controversial weapons increased substantially, largely due to the global expansion of the policy.
➔➔Refer to the table “Socially responsible investments invested
assets” in this section for more information

Our climate change commitment
Climate change is one of the most
significant challenges of our time. The
world’s key environmental and social
challenges – such as population growth,
energy security, loss of biodiversity and
access to drinking water and food – are
all closely intertwined with climate
change. This makes the transition to a
low-carbon economy vital.
We recognize that financial institutions are
increasingly expected to play a key role in
the transition to a low-carbon economy,
and we are determined to support our
clients in preparing for success in an
increasingly carbon-constrained world. We
are one of the leading wealth management firms worldwide, and the leading
universal bank in Switzerland, backed by a
top asset management business and a
client-centered investment bank. Therefore, our climate change strategy focuses
on the areas of risk management,
investments, financing, research and
in-house operations. It is in these areas
that we believe we can make the greatest
contribution to the transition towards a
low-carbon economy. Our contribution to
these areas in 2013 included:

290

Risk management: seeking to protect
our clients’, and our own, assets from
climate change risks, within our
sphere of influence.
We committed to participating in
international efforts led by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the United
Nations (UN) Environment Programme
Finance Initiative to develop a greenhouse
gas accounting and reporting guidance
for financial intermediaries.
We helped our clients manage their
exposure to the emissions markets and
offered execution and full service clearing
for contracts on, for example, EU
Emissions Trading System allowances and
UN Certiﬁed Emissions Reductions in
Europe and North America.
Investments: helping to mobilize
private and institutional capital
towards investments facilitating
climate change mitigation and
adaptation.
We launched an Impact Investing Private
Equity fund for SMEs in emerging and
frontier markets. With a volume slightly in
excess of CHF 50 million at closure, it is

one of the largest impact funds in the
sector funded by clients and private
capital. The fund represents a unique
investment opportunity for wealthy clients
and is expected to generate significant
social and environmental impact.
Our UBS Portfolio Screening Services
helped Wealth Management clients align
their portfolios to their values by assessing portfolios using specific sustainability
criteria (including environmental topics).
Based on increased interest among our
clients, we screened CHF 4.2 billion of
client assets in 2013.
The UBS Clean Energy Infrastructure
Switzerland offers institutional investors
unprecedented access to a diversified
portfolio of Swiss infrastructure facilities
and companies in the field of renewable
energies and energy efficiency. Capital
commitments had reached approximately
CHF 350 million on 31 December 2013.
Six of Global Asset Management’s real
estate funds, with CHF 20 billion gross
assets under management, obtained the
top ranking (”green star”), and two of

Socially responsible investments invested assets 1
% change
from

For the year ended
CHF billion, except where indicated

GRI 2

UBS total invested assets

31.12.13

31.12.12

31.12.11

31.12.12

2,390

2,230

2,167

7

UBS SRI products and mandates
positive criteria

FS11

2.18

1.60

1.84

37

positive criteria / RPI 3

FS11

39.00

32.15

28.19

21

exclusion criteria 4

FS11

56.09

35.68

27.46

57

policy based restrictions 5

FS11

475.14

181.64

180.85

162

Third-party 6

FS11

3.70

2.66

2.58

39

Total SRI invested assets

FS11

576.12

253.73

240.92

127

24.11%

11.38%

11.12%

Proportion of total invested assets (%) 7

Socially responsible investments (SRI) are products
that consider environmental, social or ethical criteria
alongside financial returns. SRI can take various forms,
including positive screening, exclusion or engagement.
Positive criteria apply to the active selection of
companies, focusing on how a company’s strategies,
processes and products impact its financial success,
the environment and society. This includes best-in-class
or thematic investments.
Exclusion criteria whereby one or several sectors are
excluded based on environmental, social or ethical
criteria, for example, companies involved in weapons,
tobacco, gambling, or companies with high negative
environmental impacts. This also includes faith-based
investing consistent with principles and values of a
particular religion.

All figures are based on the level of knowledge as of January 2014.   2 FS stands for the Performance Indicators defined in the Global
­Reporting Initiative Financial Services Sector Supplement.   3 UBS Global Asset Management Responsible Property Investment strategy.  
4 Includes customized screening services (single or multiple exclusion criteria).   5 Assets subject to restrictions under UBS policy on the prohibition of investments in companies related to anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions (includes all invested assets held in Global Asset
Management actively managed discretionary segregated mandates and all actively managed funds (retail and institutional) held by Global
­Asset Management, Wealth Management and Retail & Corporate). In 2013, the scope of this policy became global.   6 SRI products from thirdparty providers apply either positive and exclusion criteria or a combination thereof.   7 Total SRI / UBS’s invested assets.
1

Financing: supporting this transition
as corporate advisor, and / or with our
lending capacity.
We supported Swiss SMEs in saving energy,
as promoted by the Swiss Energy Agency’s
SMEs Model. Clients benefited from the
agency’s ”energy check-up for SMEs” at
reduced costs and were granted cash
premiums for committing to an energy
reduction plan within this scheme. By the
end of 2013, 116 companies signed up.
By supporting Swiss private clients when
renovating their private homes sustainably,
we redistributed CHF 2.9 million in cash
benefit, funded by proceeds from the Swiss
CO2 levy refund. Swiss private clients could
also benefit from the UBS “eco” mortgage
when building energy-efficient homes.

Expressing our commitment to being a
financial partner in the energy transition
in Switzerland, we are sponsors of the
Swiss Energy and Climate Summit 2013
and 2014 as a Premium Partner.
In 2013, the Investment Bank supported
190 clients that provide a positive
contribution to climate change mitigation
and adaptation, either in equity or debt
capital market transactions (total deal
value CHF 28.5 billion) or as financial
advisor (total deal value CHF 49.4 billion).
Research: offering world-class
research capacity to our clients on
climate change issues.
We continued to provide clients with
award-winning research on climate change
related topics. Examples include “ESG
Outcomes for a ‘New Global Economy,’“
“Postcards from the US … on energy &
climate,” “Global utilities: Can utilities
survive in their current form?” and “China
integrated natural gas: Will a coal-to-gas
boom eventually go bust?” Our thought
leadership in this area was recognized by
the annual Thomson Reuters Extel / UKSIF
Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) &

Sustainability Survey where UBS ranked
fourth for Climate Change and second for
Renewable Energy.
Our Chief Investment Office (CIO) Wealth
Management research provided regular
research updates on renewables,
agribusiness, energy efficiency and water.
The latter was the sustainable investment
theme promoted in the 2013 UBS CIO
House View.
In-house operations: reducing our
own greenhouse gas emissions.
We further reduced our emissions 15%
year on year, achieving a 49% reduction
from baseline year 2004. This brings us
very close to reaching our target of a 50%
reduction by 2016. We continued to invest
in sustainable real estate and efficient
information technology, and reduced our
energy consumption 3% year on year.
We are on track to reach our target of a
10% reduction compared with 2012 levels
by 2016.
➔➔Refer to www.ubs.com/climate for our
complete climate change commitment

291

Corporate governance, responsibility
and compensation

them were awarded “sector leader”
status, by the 2013 Global Real Estate
Sustainability Benchmark, thus recognizing our efforts in defining and implementing a sustainable and responsible property
investment strategy (RPI). All six funds
rank within the first and second quartiles
of their respective peer set (among more
than 540 real estate portfolios).

Corporate governance, responsibility and compensation
Corporate responsibility

Corporate and private clients financing and advisory
UBS globally provides capital raising and strategic advisory services to companies offering products that provide a positive contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation, including
those in the solar, wind, hydro, energy efficiency, waste and biofuels, and transport sectors. In 2013, we supported transactions
that included a USD 50 million equity capital raising for Cool
Planet, a US-based renewable energy company which has developed a patented process to convert non-food biomass into gasoline, a USD 300 million three-year bond offering for the China
Longyuan Power Group, the largest wind power generation company in Asia, and a CHF 400 million dual-tranche bond for Sika
AG, a Swiss specialty chemicals company providing products to
the construction and transportation industries that enhance durability and promote the efficient use of energy, water and other
resources. In addition, we helped our clients manage their exposure to the emissions markets, while in Switzerland, we helped
SMEs to save energy and support retail clients when undertaking
energy-efficient renovations.
Voting rights
We believe that voting rights have economic value and should be
treated accordingly. Where Global Asset Management has been
given the discretion to vote on behalf of our clients, we will exercise our delegated fiduciary responsibility by voting in the manner
we believe will be most favorable to the value of their investments. In 2013, we voted on more than 69,000 separate resolutions at 7,075 company meetings. Our approach to corporate
governance is an active one and is integral to our investment process. We are an active member of a number of collaborative
shareholder bodies.
Since 2010, Global Asset Management in Switzerland has
been offering UBS Voice, a free service enabling holders of Swiss
institutional funds to express voting preferences ahead of shareholder meetings of major Swiss corporations. This provides addi-

tional shareholder input into the voting decisions of the funds’
management company. More than 40% of invested assets for
which UBS Voice is offered participate in this service.
Our operations
Continuously reducing our greenhouse gas footprint
In 2013, we reduced our greenhouse gas footprint again by decreasing our emissions 15% year on year, achieving a 49% reduction from baseline year 2004. This brings us very close to
reaching our target of a 50% reduction by 2016. We also reduced our footprint per full-time employee 12% year on year.
Our strong performance is a result of adopting energy efficiency
measures to reduce the energy consumption of the buildings we
occupy, and of critical facilities such as the data centers we use,
while increasing the proportion of renewable energy. Emissions
that cannot be reduced by other means (for example, business air
travel) are offset.
UBS’s Environmental Program was introduced in the 1970s,
and since 1999, we have managed the program through an Environmental Management System in accordance with ISO 14001.
At the time, we were the first bank to obtain ISO 14001 certification for our Group-wide environmental management system. In
addition, our greenhouse gas emissions data is externally verified
according to ISO 14064 standards.
Reducing energy consumption and improving energy efficiency
In 2013, we reduced energy consumption 3%, contributing to
our target of reducing energy consumption 10% by 2016 compared with 2012 levels. Between 2009 and 2012, we overachieved on our previous targets and reduced our energy consumption 21%. We will continue to invest in energy-efficient
infrastructure and implement established energy reduction measures, such as ensuring that heating, air-conditioning and lighting
controls of the buildings we occupy are optimized. In addition, we

Environmental targets and performance in our operations 1
GRI 2
Total net greenhouse gas emissions (GHG footprint) in t CO2e 3

EN15–17

2013

Target 2016

183,011

–50%

% change
Progress /
Baseline from baseline Achievement 6
360,501 4

–49.2

2012

2011

215,279

220,593

Energy consumption in GWh

EN3

737

–10%

761 5

–3.2

761

827

Share of renewable energy

EN3

48.8%

increase

23.9% 4

104.2

41.6%

44.9%
88,867

GHG offsetting (business air travel) in t CO2e

EN18

72,612

100%

04

100

73,024

Paper consumption in kg per FTE 7

EN1

121

–5%

122 5

–1.1

122

122

Share of recycled and FSC paper

EN2

57.6%

60%

55.8% 5

3.1

55.8%

44.3%

Waste in kg per FTE 7

EN23

213

–5%

230 5

–7.8

230

242

Waste recycling ratio

EN23

55.6%

60%

54.2% 5

2.5

54.2%

54.2%

Water consumption in m m3

EN8

1.77

–5%

1.95 5

–9.1

1.95

2.00

Legend: CO2e = CO2 equivalents, FTE = full-time employee, GWh = gigawatt hour, kWh = kilowatt hour, km = kilometer, kg = kilogram, m m3 = million cubic meter, t = tonne
Detailed environmental indicators are available on the internet www.ubs.com/environment. Reporting period 2013 (1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013).   2 Related to Global Reporting Initiative (see also www.global­reporting.
org). EN stands for the environmental performance indicators as defined in the GRI.   3 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and GHG offsets (Gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS, indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam and other indirect GHG emissions associated with
business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal).   4 Baseline year 2004.   5 Baseline year 2012.   6 Green: on track / amber: behind schedule.   7 FTEs are calculated on an average basis including contractors.
1

292

+PVQPPGU%1 G


5JCTGQHTGPGYCDNGGPGTI[ KP















 

 








































&KTGEV)*)GOKUUKQPU QKNICUHWGNU













+PFKTGEV)*)GOKUUKQPU GNGEVTKEKV[JGCV

1VJGTKPFKTGEV)*)GOKUUKQPU VTCXGNKPENQHHUGVVKPIRCRGTYCUVG
5JCTGQHTGPGYCDNGGPGTI[KPENFKUVTKEVJGCVKPI KP

apply externally verified standards to validate building performance.
Information technology consumes up to half of the electricity
used by the Group worldwide, and consolidation, virtualization
and the Desktop Transformation Program (designed to reduce the
number of personal computers whilst ensuring that new computers and monitors are more energy-efficient than the equipment
they replace) have contributed to significant energy savings in recent years. In 2013, we reduced the electricity consumption of
our data centers more than 6% year on year.
Increasing share of renewable energy
We are reducing our use of carbon-intensive energy by replacing
fossil-fuelled heating infrastructure where feasible and by purchasing renewable energy for a high proportion of the energy we
use (49% in 2013).
Business travel and offsetting CO2 emissions
We continuously try to minimize our CO2 emissions in business
travel by encouraging our employees to choose alternatives to air
travel, such as high-speed rail, recording a 7% reduction in the
number of flights taken, and a 2% increase in employee rail travel
in Switzerland in 2013. Our investments in video-conferencing solutions also contributed to the reduction in air travel. Globally, over
400 rooms with video facilities are available and more than 80,000
room bookings were processed in 2013. The marketing and events
teams adhere to environmental guidelines for client conferences
and consider the impact of delegate travel, hotels, venue facilities
and catering as part of their logistics and planning.
We continue to offset all CO2 emissions resulting from agencybooked business air travel and client events and conferences,
thereby supporting renewable energy and other projects reducing
CO2 emissions. Projects we selected meet the requirements of the
Gold Standard for voluntary emissions reductions and also provide positive community benefits. Schemes selected include a
wind power project in Turkey and community biofuel projects in
China and India.

Reducing paper consumption, waste generation and water usage
We are committed to further reducing our environmental footprint
and are on track to reach our 2016 targets, which use 2012 performance as the baseline:
–– The amount of paper used per employee decreased 1% compared with baseline year 2012. Double-sided printing and copying, now the default setting for printers used by the majority of
our employees, combined with an ongoing shift towards the

distribution of
electronic
documents, will enable us to reach our


target of reducing paper usage 5%. We increased
the percentage of office paper from Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), or
 to 58%

recycled sources,
in 2013,
contributing
towards reach

ing our 60% target.
–– The continued implementation of bin-less offices in many larger

 8% since 2012,
locations has
reduced the
waste
per employee

outperforming our 5% reduction target by 2016. Our waste
recycling ratio improved from 54% in 2012 to 56%, a step in
the right direction towards reaching our target of 60% by
2016.
–– Our water consumption decreased 9% compared with 2012
levels, exceeding our target of 5% by 2016.
➔➔Refer to the table “Environmental targets and performance in
our operations” in this section for more information

Engaging our employees
By educating, increasing awareness among and offering incentives to our employees on environmental matters, we hope to
help them behave in a sustainable way both at work and at
home. As part of our commitment to reducing CO2 emissions, we
continued to support Earth Hour in March 2013, switching off
lights in UBS offices in 73 cities around the world for one hour.
This also marked the start of our annual internal and external
environmental awareness campaign. The theme in 2013 was
”Protecting our future” and focused on our renewed climate
change commitment, with activities including environmental
fairs, an online environmental quiz, as well as articles and interviews with senior management posted on our internal and external websites.
Responsible supply chain management
Responsible supply chain management (RSCM) principles serve
to embed our ethics and values when interacting with our suppliers, contractors and service partners. As part of this commitment,
we have implemented an RSCM framework to identify, assess
and monitor supplier practices in the areas of human and labor
rights, the environment, health and safety and anti-corruption. In
2013, we further strengthened our existing RSCM framework by
focusing on suppliers that either have a potentially high environmental or social impact, or suppliers that are active in high-risk
countries. We screened relevant suppliers and identified around
40 suppliers for which remediation measures have been defined
in order to be in line with UBS’s RSCM standards. Due diligence is
performed by our experienced procurement and sourcing specialists, and is supported by a centralized team of experts.
293

Corporate governance, responsibility
and compensation

7$5oUITGGPJQWUGICU )*) HQQVRTKPV|

Corporate governance, responsibility and compensation
Corporate responsibility

Our communities
Within our community investment program, we aim to overcome
disadvantage in our local communities by supporting education
and entrepreneurship through a combination of targeted funding
and the commitment and skills of our employees. Coordinated
globally, our initiatives are implemented regionally. Proximity to
our partners allows us to better understand the needs and requirements of our communities. Based on this, we can generate a
long-term, sustainable and measurable impact on our local communities while offering volunteering opportunities for our employees. As well as direct cash donations and the commitment of
our employees, our community investment program also includes
matched-giving schemes and disaster relief efforts.
Community Affairs
We actively engage with the communities around the globe of
which we are a part. In 2013, UBS and our affiliated foundations

made direct cash donations totaling CHF 28.3 million to carefully
selected non-profit partner organizations and charities. These donations were primarily aimed at our Community Affairs key
themes of education and entrepreneurship. Additionally, spending on the UBS Anniversary Education Initiative amounted to CHF
14.0 million. Our contributions, combined with other significant
activities, notably the volunteering activities of employees, have
continued to provide substantial benefits to projects and people
around the world, as demonstrated by the regional examples provided below.
Contributions were also made to other causes, in particular
disaster relief, including a commitment of more than CHF 1.9 million in total financial contributions to both short-term relief and
long-term rebuilding efforts in response to the devastation caused
by Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. Community Affairs and the
Optimus Foundation, UBS’s independent grant-making foundation, joined forces to offer a unique and integrated approach including both clients’ and employees’ donations in its matched-

Key examples of UBS’s community investment activities across the globe
Switzerland
Developing Switzerland’s next generation
of business leaders was a priority for us in
2013. One of the projects we supported
was the annual company event organized
by Young Enterprise Switzerland (YES). As
part of this program, which we have been
supporting since 2007, students from all
over the country establish and manage a
real company, thus learning how the
business world works. For 12 months,
they receive support from business
mentors, their teachers and YES. At the
end of the year, representatives of the 25
best-performing companies are invited to
the grand final in Zurich, where the
winner is crowned.
As part of the UBS education initiative, in
2013 we also supported one of the
annual awards made by the Social
Entrepreneurship Initiative & Foundation
(seif). Each year, seif recognizes innovative
business ideas that foster responses to
social or environmental challenges.
In Switzerland, our community investment
efforts are also advanced by the UBS
Culture Foundation, the UBS Foundation

294

for Social Issues and Education, and the A
Helping Hand from UBS Employees
association. In 2013, these organizations
made valuable contributions to important
social causes, including fostering the
humanities and the creative arts, supporting communities in need, and helping
disabled and disadvantaged people.
Americas
In 2013, Community Affairs & Corporate
Responsibility Americas undertook a
strategic re-launch of our programming to
help deploy the firm’s financial and
human capital more effectively. This
included a complete overhaul of our
employee giving portal, which supports all
of our engagement programs across the
Americas. Within UBS’s global focus areas
of education and entrepreneurship, we
are providing under-resourced, highpotential individuals with advice and
resources to help develop more enterprising communities.
In our first major initiative following the
re-launch, we coordinated UBS’s second
annual Season of Service, a community
impact initiative open to all business

divisions in the Americas. Over the course
of two months, employees completed 92
different volunteer activities and logged
more than 2,500 volunteer hours.
Within our flagship Elevating Entrepreneurs program, we continued to expand
our lending offerings in Chicago and Los
Angeles. In coordination with our partners
in the UBS Bank USA Community
Development Group and the Valley
Economic Development Center, we
committed USD 35 million in capital to
qualified small businesses in Chicago, Los
Angeles, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Salt Lake City and Las Vegas. During
2013, 29 small businesses received loans
ranging from USD 50,000 to USD 250,000
totaling USD 6.4 million. Combined, these
companies have created 451 new jobs.
Asia Pacific
In 2013, the UBS Finance Academy
program in Sydney marked its 11th
anniversary, and over the years has
provided more than 550 public school
students with first-hand insight into the
world of finance and exposure to UBS.
Over the course of the program, students

were provided with the opportunity to
listen to, and interact with, key industry
figures. Students also gained practical
knowledge of financial markets through
“day in the life” presentations, merger
and acquisition case studies and a field
trip to both UBS’s live trading floor and
CNBC’s filming studio.
Across the region, UBS employees
continue to volunteer in a diverse variety
of both skill-based and grassroots
programs. Clients and family members are
also often invited to join in where
appropriate. In 2013, during the Regional
Volunteer Experience, volunteers from
across Asia Pacific traveled to Japan and
joined local volunteers to work together
on the Team Tohoku program in the
remote northeastern community of
Kamaishi City, aimed at helping the
community get back on its feet following
the 2011 tsunami. Led by senior management, including UBS Asia Pacific’s Chief
Executive Officer, Chi-Won Yoon, these
volunteers focused on various projects
relating to job and economic regeneration, temporary and long-term recovery
housing, strengthening the skills and

Client foundation
The UBS Optimus Foundation is an expert grant-making foundation established by UBS in 1999. The Foundation works to break
down barriers that prevent children from reaching their full potential by funding leading organizations to improve the health, education and protection of children. The UBS Optimus Foundation
supports programs in places where children face adversity. Since
its establishment, the Foundation has received more than 25,000
donations totaling over CHF 195 million. By the end of 2013, the
Foundation supported 107 projects in 48 countries amounting to
a total value of CHF 69.8 million. As UBS bears all administrative
costs related to the UBS Optimus Foundation, 100% of every donation goes directly towards the projects funded.

knowledge needed by local civil societies
for further development, as well as risk
reduction and future disaster preparedness.

recognized with a Business in the
Community 2013 Responsible Business
Award for its volunteering program.

In its second year, Singapore’s Diversity in
Abilities arts program, targeted at
bringing visual and performing arts to
children in special education, was
awarded Singapore’s National Arts
Council Patron of the Arts Award 2013.
More than 140 children were trained by
renowned local and regional artists and
the program culminated in a stage
production that featured Singapore’s
Minister of Education in an acting role.

In Turkey, over 1,000 students took part
in the BKD-Science Heroes Association
challenge, which helps develop their
technology, math and entrepreneurial
skills. Hakan Habip of UBS Turkey, who
co-manages our partnership with BKD,
was named one of Turkey’s top 100
”Changemakers” by the highly regarded
Sabanci Foundation for his involvement in
BKD activities. In Italy, a team of UBS
managers worked with a group of
students from underprivileged backgrounds to raise their aspirations and
achievements, and helped them secure
places at a prestigious university. In Israel,
the successful partnership with Ashoka
continues, supporting young social
entrepreneurs to develop their projects.

Europe, Middle East and Africa
In Europe, the Middle East and Africa,
Community Affairs activities focus on
sharing the workplace skills of our
employees in order to help people in
disadvantaged communities reach their
full potential. Last year, in the UK alone,
we helped 6,366 students develop
employability and entrepreneurial skills
through UBS work-related learning
programs, which range from employability skills workshops and interview practice
to work experience. In the UK, UBS was

Across Europe, the Middle East and
Africa, employees are getting involved in
their local communities and sharing their
workplace and entrepreneurial skills.
➔➔Refer to www.ubs.com/community for
more information

295

Corporate governance, responsibility
and compensation

giving programs. This combined (client and UBS) commitment
raised the total financial contributions to the rebuilding efforts in
the Philippines to more than CHF 3 million.
Across all business regions, our employees continue to play a
very active role in our community investment efforts, in particular
through their volunteering activities. In 2013, 10,648 employees
spent 91,370 hours volunteering. We support their commitment
by offering up to two working days a year for volunteering efforts. For the second year in a row, employees who have demonstrated outstanding volunteering commitment were rewarded
with the UBS Global Employee Volunteer Awards.
Furthermore, we strengthened the measurement of the impact
of our Community Affairs activities. We measure the impact of
projects across all regions using the London Benchmarking Group
model. Understanding where we make an impact provides vital
data that helps us evaluate and focus our program. Therefore, we
plan to further expand measurements of our strategic programs
across all regions in 2014.

