HSBC Holdings plc
Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

Who we are
HSBC is one of the largest banking and
financial services organisations in the world.

Customers:
54 million

Served by:

Table of contents

254,000 employees

Through four global businesses:
Retail Banking and Wealth Management
Commercial Banking
Global Banking and Markets
Global Private Banking

Located in:
75 countries and territories

Across six geographical regions:
Europe
Hong Kong
Rest of Asia-Pacific
Middle East and North Africa
North America
Latin America

Offices:
Over 6,300

Global headquarters:
London

Market capitalisation:
US$207 billion

Listed on stock exchanges in:
London
Hong Kong
New York
Paris
Bermuda

1 Overview
2 Group Chairman’s Introduction
Chapter 1. Strategy
4 Our Strategy
5 Our Purpose, Values and Business Principles
Chapter 2. Customers
8 Global Businesses
12 Climate Business
Chapter 3. Sustainability Risk
14 Our Sustainability Risk Framework
Chapter 4. Operations
17 Our Sustainable Operations Strategy
Chapter 5. People
21 Valuing our Employees
Chapter 6. Community Investment
25 Our Approach to Community Investment
26 Education
29 HSBC Water Programme
Appendices
32 Key Facts
35 Assurance Report
36 About this Report

Shareholders:
216,000 in 131 countries and territories
Cover images
The cover images show the views from HSBC’s head offices in
Shanghai, Hong Kong and London. HSBC has a proud heritage in
all three cities, where our trade credentials were established in
1865 and which today play vital roles as hubs for international trade
and in helping us meet our aim to be the world’s leading and most
respected international bank. We will achieve this by focusing on
the needs of our customers and the societies we serve, thereby
delivering long-term sustainable value to all our stakeholders.
Photography: Matthew Mawson

CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

Overview
This report sits alongside our Annual Report and Accounts 2013, and specifically
aligns to the Strategic Report 2013, which forms part of our annual report. The
Sustainability Report articulates how we view sustainability at HSBC: the way
we integrate sustainability into our business model, both in terms of seeking
commercial opportunities and in mitigating risks.
We report on six key areas: strategy; customers; sustainability risk; operations; our people; and community investment. In
each area, we report on key developments in 2013, including progress made and room for improvement. We also give targets
and our vision for 2014 and beyond.
Strategy – how sustainability fits
into our organisational strategy
and values, helping us to achieve
our purpose as an organisation

Stra
teg
y

i

nity
mument
omest
nv

Customers – how we connect
our customers to our products
and services through our four
global businesses, including
commercial opportunities that
support the transition to a
low-carbon economy

it y

People

Customers

pe

O

People – how we attract,
retain and develop the best
talent in an international
market-place in order to
deliver our strategy

C

Community investment – working
with charity partners to help young
people realise their potential and
achieve their ambitions, and protect
and provide access to freshwater
and sanitation through the HSBC
Water Programme

ra

ti o

ns

i
ab
n
i
a
S u st ris k

Operations – how we will achieve
our goal to cut annual employee
carbon emissions from 3.5 to
2.5 tonnes by 2020

l

Sustainability risk – helping to
manage our risks and support
customers through our sustainability
risk policies and processes

Highlights 2013

6,700

employees trained online in
sustainability risk since 2011

500,000

people provided with
sanitation thanks to WaterAid

US$117m

donated to community
investment programmes

US$13.3b

available in growth funds for
international SMEs

135,000
employees trained
in HSBC Values

7%

reduction in energy use
in our operations

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

1

Group Chairman’s Introduction

Douglas Flint
Group Chairman

“Future economic prosperity has to be
based on more efficient consumption of
scarce natural resources if targeted
economic growth is to be sustainable.”

In recent years, it has been socially
challenging to be in banking. In the
aftermath of the global financial crisis,
our industry has, deservedly, had to
face up to well-founded public criticism
and deal with the implications for its
business models of a severe loss
of trust. The consequential public
policy response has been intense
and prolonged, leading to significant
regulatory changes as well as requiring
banks to undertake critical selfexamination as to their social purpose
and culture. The scale and depth of
these examinations and reforms are
immense but, at their heart, they quite
properly address a simple question,
namely is the financial system delivering
what society expects from it in a
way that contributes to the long-term
sustainable health and growth of the
economies in which we live?

Recognising global trends
As the developed world contemplates
more subdued growth than enjoyed
historically and as emerging markets
enter a phase of consolidation,
deregulation and greater marketbased reforms, a number of trends
are apparent that will shape the global
2

population than ever seen, with huge
consequential funding implications for
pensions, healthcare and long-term
care costs.

economy in the near to mid-term.
The first of these is urbanisation in
emerging markets, most notably in
China, as migration from the rural
economy accelerates in order to
achieve a more balanced distribution of
economic prosperity. Secondly, there
needs to be massive investment in new
infrastructure to support this growth in
urbanisation in emerging markets and,
at the same time, to refresh ageing
infrastructure in developed markets.
Thirdly, the newly affluent citizens
benefiting from a greater share of
economic prosperity will demand a
more varied diet and better quality of
life than their predecessors, putting
even greater strain on the scarce
natural resources needed to deliver
this. So the fourth overriding trend is
a recognition that future economic
prosperity has to be based on more
efficient consumption of scarce natural
resources and lower dependence on
climate-impacting fuels if targeted
economic growth is to be sustainable;
this leads to the need to embrace
much greater investment in new
‘green’ technologies. Finally, the world
is facing a major shift in demographic
profile, essentially an ageing population,
relatively larger to the working

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

So while we need urgently to address
the causes of past failings in our
industry, we have always to keep in
perspective the benefits that come
from a properly focused and functioning
financial system. These range from the
efficient allocation of financial resources
that enhances economic growth, to the
financial innovation that allows those
investing in new and complex areas
to manage the related project risks
and on to the creation of the products
and services that allow individuals and
companies to realise their ambitions
and contemplate their future with
confidence. This is what the financial
system can and must deliver. And
when it delivers, as it did in the
decades up to the global financial
crisis it contributes not only to the
steady spread of prosperity, but also
to an escape from poverty for many
millions of people. Additionally, a
properly functioning financial system
puts economies on course to meet
the growing obligations created by
demographic ageing.

Embedding sustainability
All of this reinforces that sustainability,
in the context of the financial system,
has to be at its core and not seen
as a parallel accountability. That is
why in 2014 we have folded our
Corporate Sustainability Committee
responsibilities into a new Conduct and
Values Committee with much broader

Limited 04-06-14

“Our focus on improving society
through education for disadvantaged
young people continues to be both
inspiring and successful.”

terms of reference. This committee is
responsible for non-executive oversight
of, and advice to the Board on, all
aspects of HSBC policies, procedures
and standards designed to ensure
that the Group conducts its business
responsibly and consistently adheres to
HSBC Values. The committee’s remit
will not only provide the governance
noted above but will continue to
respond to changing expectations from
society and our key stakeholders.
During 2013, both as part of routine
review and in response to stakeholder
feedback, we updated our Forest Land
and Forest Products Policy and issued
a revised Forestry Policy, an Agricultural
Commodities Policy and a World
Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands
Policy. These relate to the role we
play as a bank in providing financial
services to our customers along the
supply chain. In order to improve our
policies we have tightened our checking
processes, made our policies more
specific to different parts of the forestry
industry and simplified them. We
also now apply our palm oil standards
to traders and refiners as well as to
growers.
I am delighted to report the growing
success of the HSBC Water
Programme. Now in its third year of
five, we are seeing real progress in
communities, both locally and globally.
With an estimated global population
of nine billion by 2050, the pressure
on our water supplies continues to
grow and, by 2025, it is projected that
65 per cent of the global community
will live in water-stressed areas. Lack
of safe water and sanitation has vast

economic, social and humanitarian
implications. Under the HSBC Water
Programme, urban freshwater research
projects are now up and running in 24
cities, thanks to our partner Earthwatch.
In addition, over 1,600 HSBC Citizen
Science Leaders have been trained
to collect data on freshwater quality
and biodiversity. Through our partner
WaterAid, over 400,000 people now
have access to safe water and over
500,000 have better sanitation. Hygiene
education has been provided in more
than 1,500 schools in developing
countries. Thanks to our partner WWF,
72 stakeholder groups have made an
initial commitment to work together to
conserve wetland headwaters of the
Pantanal in Brazil.
Our focus on improving society through
education for disadvantaged young
people continues to be both inspiring
and successful. In the UK, we launched
a three-year, £30 million programme –
the Opportunity Partnership – to help
young people realise their potential. In
the first six months of the partnership,
the initiative helped 3,000 young people
to secure a place in education, training
or work. In 2014, we are piloting a
four-week vocational training course to
help disadvantaged young people who
are not work-ready to gain the skills
and experience they need to access
entry-level job opportunities, such as
cashier or counsellor, at HSBC. Fortyfive young people began the scheme in
January 2014, with 250 due to take part
by December. We hope that at least
50 per cent of the young people who
complete the programme will want to
get a job at HSBC and succeed in doing

so. If successful, they will join HSBC’s
existing apprenticeship programme.
In drawing my remarks to a conclusion,
I want to record how particularly proud
I am of the commitment of my HSBC
colleagues to employee volunteering
opportunities – over 250,000 hours
given in work time in 2013. We support
this personal contribution not just
through giving the time to participate
but through training. So that we have
senior level understanding of what
environmental efficiency means to each
business and function within HSBC
and that we have the accountability for
delivering our operational sustainability
goals, we continue to run HSBC’s
Sustainability Leadership Programme
across the Group. In 2013, we trained
255 senior managers, taking the total
trained to 627. More broadly, in 2013,
nearly 135,000 employees received
focused values training, in addition to
the 103,000 employees in 2012.
We are on a never-ending journey to
embed sustainability in all its forms into
HSBC’s business practices and values.
We are making good progress which is
well illustrated in this Report.

Douglas Flint
Group Chairman
May 2014

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

3

Chapter 1. Strategy

Our Strategy
Our strategic priorities are designed to
ensure we have a sustainable business
for the long term.
Grow ...
Profit underpins long-term business sustainability and
growing our profit is an integral part of our strategy. The
conditions for creating value and generating profits are
reflected in our business and operating models, which
determine how our global businesses, geographical regions
and functions interact. Delivering organic growth will support
a progressive dividend.

Implement ...
A global bank needs global standards – consistent operating
principles that are fundamental to the way we do business
and which help us to detect, deter and protect against
financial crime. Implementing Global Standards affects how
we govern the Group, the nature of our core business and
the performance, recognition and behaviours of all our people
in managing high quality customer relationships. It starts with
embedding our HSBC Values in everything we do.

Streamline ...
This initiative is critical to the long-term sustainability of our
business. Society’s expectations of the financial services
industry are evolving and becoming more demanding. At
the same time, the digital revolution is reducing barriers to
new entrants to the industry and markets are becoming
increasingly competitive. In this environment, it is essential
4

that we focus relentlessly on improving efficiency, ensuring
that all parts of the Group streamline their processes and
procedures and, as a consequence, reduce their costs.
In doing so, we must remain cognisant of our wider
obligations to the community, including human rights, and
the environment.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Our Purpose, Values and Business Principles
Our purpose is to be where the
growth is, connecting customers to
opportunities, enabling businesses to
thrive and economies to prosper, and
ultimately helping people to fulfil their
hopes and realise their ambitions.

Our strategic priorities

Our Values

We aim to be the world’s leading and most respected
international bank. We will achieve this by focusing on the
needs of our customers and the societies we serve, thereby
delivering long-term sustainable value to all our stakeholders.

Embedding HSBC Values in every decision and every
interaction with customers and with each employee is a top
priority for the Group and is shaping the way we do business.

For 2011 to 2013, we defined strategic actions across three
areas: capital deployment, organisation and cost efficiency,
and growth. In May 2013, we announced a set of three
interconnected and equally weighted priorities for 2014 to
2016 to help us deliver our strategy:
• Grow the business and dividends
• Implement Global Standards
• Streamline processes and procedures
Each priority is interrelated, complementary and underpinned
by initiatives within our day-to-day business. Together these
priorities create value for our customers and shareholders,
and contribute to the long-term sustainability of HSBC.
Further information on our implementation of these priorities
is available on pages 13-35 of the Strategic Report 2013.
For HSBC, sustainability is about reaching a balance of
positive economic, social and environmental outcomes. We
seek to make good decisions and act with integrity to ensure
we can deliver our strategic priorities and create sustainable
long-term value.
The emphasis we place on these issues has led us to
establish a new Board committee in 2014, the Conduct
and Values Committee, which will oversee the setting and
application of HSBC policies, procedures and standards to
ensure we conduct business responsibly and consistently
and adhere to HSBC Values. The Committee takes on much
of the remit of the former Group Corporate Sustainability
Committee, and expands upon it. The Committee will
focus on ensuring that in the conduct of its business, HSBC
treats customers fairly and openly, does business with the
right clients and in the right way, is a responsible employer,
acts responsibly towards the communities in which HSBC
operates and treats other stakeholders fairly.

The role of HSBC Values in daily operating practice is
fundamental to our culture, and is particularly important
in the light of developments in regulatory policy, investor
confidence and society’s expectations of banks. HSBC
Values are integral to the selection, assessment, recognition,
remuneration and training of our employees. We expect our
executives and employees to act with courageous integrity in
the execution of their duties in the following ways:
Be dependable and do the right thing
• stand firm for what is right, deliver on commitments, be
resilient and trustworthy;
• take personal accountability, be decisive, use judgement
and common sense, empower others.
Be open to different ideas and cultures
• communicate openly, honestly and transparently, value
challenge, learn from mistakes;
• listen, treat people fairly, be inclusive, value different
perspectives.
Be connected with our customers, communities,
regulators and each other
• build connections, be externally focused, collaborate
across boundaries;
• care about individuals and their progress, show respect,
be supportive and responsive.

Further details are available on our website at www.hsbc.
com/investor-relations/governance/board-committees.
HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

5

Chapter 1. Strategy (continued)

We aim to be the world’s leading and most respected international bank. We
will achieve this by focusing on the needs of our customers and the societies
we serve, thereby delivering long-term sustainable value to all our stakeholders.

• Customer focus – provide outstanding customer
experience

Our business principles
Our business principles set the standard by which we derive
our strategy and make commercial decisions. Together
our values and business principles form our character and
define who we are as an organisation and what makes us
distinctive. They describe the enduring nature of how we
do business. We aim to bring these values and business
principles to life through our day-to-day actions.

Business principles
• Financial strength – maintain capital strength and liquidity
• Risk management – be enterprising and commercial,
understand and be accountable for the impact of our
actions, take prudent decisions
• Speed – be fast and responsive, make principles-led
decisions
• Performance focus – drive leading, competitive levels of
performance, act with urgency and intensity, prioritise,
simplify
• Efficiency – focus on cost discipline and process
efficiency
• Quality – pursue excellence

Breakdown of tax paid by region 2013
Total US$8.6b

1.7

Latin America

Other jurisdictions

0.3

1.4

• Sustainability – take a long-term outlook, understand
impact of actions on stakeholders, brand and reputation

Our economic contribution
By running a sustainable banking business, HSBC is able to
make a valuable contribution to the global economy not only
by providing services to our customers but also by paying
dividends to our shareholders; remuneration to our employees;
payments to our suppliers; and tax revenues to governments
in the countries and territories where we operate.
HSBC does not enter into or promote tax avoidance. We
observe the spirit as well as the letter of the law in all the
jurisdictions where we operate and deal with tax authorities
in an open and honest manner. As part of its anti-money
laundering programme, HSBC has established a global
standard that seeks to ensure its services are not used by
clients to evade tax. For example, we impose significant
restrictions on the use by clients of bearer shares, which are
not registered to any owner but are beneficially owned by the
person physically holding the share certificates – a situation
that carries risks of money laundering and tax evasion.

Taxes collected for government 2013
Total US$8.8b

UK

0.4

2.5
Asia-Pacific

2.3

• Integrated – align the Group and break down silos

North America

1.0

1.5

UK

1.3
North America
3.5
Rest of Europe

Latin America

Rest of Europe

1.5
Asia-Pacific
Other jurisdictions 0

Taxes paid by HSBC relate to HSBC’s own tax liabilities including tax on profits
earned, employer taxes, bank levy and other duties/levies such as stamp
duty. This chart reflects a geographical view of HSBC’s operations by its tax
residency. Going forward the basis of preparation will align to the Group’s
approach in meeting its country-by-country reporting obligations as laid out in
Article 89 of the European Union Capital Requirements Directive IV.

6

Taxes collected relate to those taxes which HSBC is liable to pay as agent for
taxation authorities across the world and include all employee-related taxes,
together with taxes withheld from payments of interest and charged on the
provision of goods and services to its customers.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

HSBC pays corporate tax where it has business operations.
We have substantial businesses in lower-tax jurisdictions,
such as the Hong Kong SAR.
Following requests from shareholders and non-governmental
organisations (NGOs) for more transparency on taxation,
we provide a breakdown of our tax payments for our priority
markets in the ‘Key Facts’ section of this report on page 32.

UK tax paid
HSBC ranks as one of the biggest contributors of tax to the
UK government, paying US$2.3 billion in 2013, compared
with US$1.6 billion in 2012, an increase of US$0.7 billion.
Our tax contribution included the UK government bank levy
of US$0.7 billion, up from US$0.5 billion in 2012.

HSBC’s net cash tax contribution
US$b

2012

2013

Tax on profits

5.6

4.7

Employer taxes (National Insurance)

1.6

1.6

UK bank levy

0.5

0.7

Irrecoverable value-added tax

0.8

0.8

Other duties and levies

0.8

0.8

Total

9.3

8.6

Distribution of economic benefits
US$b

2011

2012

2013

Net cash tax outflow1

8.0

9.3

8.6

Distributions to shareholders and
non-controlling interests

8.3

8.7

10.2

Pro forma post-tax profit allocation

Employee compensation and benefits

21.2

20.5

19.2

HSBC’s Board of Directors is responsible for allocating the
appropriate distribution of profits to balance retained capital,
shareholder reward and employee variable pay. For the sake
of clarity, the variable pay pool profit measure takes into
account the impact of fines, penalties and other items of
redress. On a pro forma basis, attributable profits (excluding
movements in the fair value of own debt and before variable
pay distributions) are allocated in the proportions shown in
the charts below. The Group’s target policy is for the vast
majority of post-tax profit to be allocated to capital and to
shareholders.

General administrative expenses
including premises and procurement

17.5

20.0

17.1

Pro forma post-tax profit allocation 2012
%

Pro forma post-tax profit allocation 2013
%

35

Retained
earnings/capital
Target: 45

1 Includes cash outflows of corporation tax, employer payroll tax,
irrecoverable value-added tax and other taxes.

29

Dividends1
Target: 40

Dividends1

60

53

Retained
earnings/capital
12

11
Variable pay 2

Variable pay 2
Target: 15

1 Inclusive of dividends to holders of other equity instruments and net of scrip issuance based on an assumption of scrip take-up for the fourth quarter of 2013
of 20 per cent. Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect of 2013 were US$0.49, an increase of 8.9 per cent compared with 2012.
2 Total variable pay pool net of tax and portion to be delivered by the award of HSBC shares.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

7

Chapter 2. Customers

Global Businesses
With their strong international connectivity, HSBC’s four global businesses –
Retail Banking and Wealth Management, Commercial Banking, Global Banking
and Markets, and Global Private Banking – serve 54 million customers and are
supported by 11 global functions, including Global Corporate Sustainability.
Retail Banking and Wealth
Management
We offer advice and wealth products such as
personal banking, pensions and life insurance to
more than 50 million personal customers worldwide.

We provide financial services and products to
corporates, governments and institutions.

Commercial Banking

Global Private Banking

We help small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
to find the right financial solutions to succeed in
the global economy. Our international network of
offices supports SMEs that trade or aspire to trade
internationally.

We offer private banking and wealth management
services to wealthy individuals and their families in
such areas as legacy and succession planning, and
philanthropic giving.

Customer service, satisfaction and
complaints
In 2013, we further sharpened our focus on customer
service.
In Retail Banking and Wealth Management (RBWM), we
measure customer recommendation through an independent
market research survey of retail banking customers in selected
countries, using a customer recommendation index to score
performance. We benchmark our performance against our
key competitors in each market and set targets relative to our
peer group. The Group target is for 75 per cent of markets
(based on their weighted revenue to the Group) to achieve
their local customer recommendation index target. In 2013,
RBWM met this target, with a score of 85 per cent.
In RBWM, ‘root cause analysis’ of complaints is conducted
to enable us to understand the nature of the complaint and,
more importantly, to come up with a solution. Since early
2013, complaints are reviewed at the monthly Global RBWM
Executive Committee and market Executive Committee
meetings. In the second half of 2013, there was a 17 per
cent reduction in complaints globally. In markets where
regulators publish complaint trends, HSBC is typically at or
below its peer group in complaint volumes. As John Flint,
Chief Executive, RBWM, says: ‘Complaints are a moment of
truth for our customers and we must treat them as such. If
we resolve the customer’s complaint the right way, we have
the opportunity to reinforce an even more trusted and longterm relationship.’

8

Global Banking and Markets

We measure the satisfaction of our Commercial Banking
clients through a survey of key customers -- the client
engagement programme -- conducted by an independent
third party. This provides a valuable insight into customer
demand, helping us to tailor solutions to meet customers’
needs.The survey, which provides aggregate scores for
the Business Banking and Corporate Banking divisions, is
conducted in the UK, Germany, France, Turkey, the USA,
Canada, the United Arab Emirates, mainland China, the Hong
Kong SAR, India, Australia, Singapore, Mexico, Argentina
and Brazil. We have conducted more than 2,500 interviews
with our Corporate Banking customers and over 6,000 with
Business Banking clients. These interviews allow us to build
an overall score, out of a possible 100, that rates us on seven
key relationship criteria.
In 2013, Corporate Banking’s score was 85, up slightly from
84 in 2012, with strong performances in mainland China,
the US, Brazil and Germany. Business Banking scored 82,
up from 81 in 2012, with strong performances in a number
of priority markets, notably our home markets of Hong Kong
and the UK. Given the complex and competitive environment
in many of the markets surveyed, this is a very good,
consistent performance that demonstrates HSBC’s positive
relationships with these valuable customers.

Client selection
Effective client selection is central to our growth strategy as
we seek to generate long-term relationships and sustainable
revenue streams within acceptable risk parameters. In 2013,
we launched a comprehensive programme to reposition our

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

portfolios in order to manage our business more effectively.
The programme, which is continuing in 2014, includes
reviewing our customer base and establishing robust
client selection filters to ensure we only do business with
customers who we are confident meet our criteria.

insurance products to assess their value for money and to
position the business for the future. This initiative, which is
now a standard element of our new product approval process
worldwide, has enabled RBWM to apply greater consistency
when reviewing product portfolios and has equipped
management to balance customer outcomes with producing
a commercial return.

New products and services
Supporting home ownership

Digital improvements
In 2013, we launched new mobile applications (apps) and
increased the functionality of our internet banking platforms,
tailored to customers’ needs in different countries. We
delivered service improvements for customers using
mobile phones and achieved 2.5 million downloads of our
global mobile banking app in 25 countries. In addition, we
selectively piloted Twitter and Facebook-based services for
customers and were voted the top social media bank in the
UK in 2013 by IMGroup, the digital management consultancy.
In Vietnam, we developed an SMS alert message that is
now sent to a customer’s registered mobile phone number
as soon as he/she completes a credit card transaction,
preventing fraud and providing protection.
In Brazil, we launched bill payment via digital picture on
mobile phones and were recognised by Global Finance
magazine as the best internet bank in the market for the
second year running.
In Hong Kong, we are seeing more customers using the
Group’s global mobile banking app to trade stocks. HSBC
was the first bank in Hong Kong to send stock price alerts via
push notification.

Supporting customers
Incentivising sales staff
In 2013, we took a major step to align our employees’
remuneration with customers’ interests by introducing a
new incentive programme for our Wealth Management
relationship managers. This removes all formulaic links
to sales volumes and instead focuses on meeting our
customers’ needs. The emphasis on strengthening the
overall customer relationship rather than simply increasing
product volumes represents a significant shift in our approach
to remuneration. We have developed a similar incentive
programme covering the rest of RBWM’s customerfacing staff, and all our retail products. This was partially
implemented in France and the UK in 2013 and was
effective in most markets from the beginning of 2014.

Product range and value for money reviews
In 2013, we continued to simplify and reduce our product
range to make it easier for customers to identify products
that meet their needs. By the end of 2013 across our priority
markets, we had reduced the number of retail banking
products from just under 1,000 to 730. Streamlining has
enabled us to identify gaps in our portfolio, which allows
our product range to be improved in the future.

Mortgages are one of our key products. In the UK, we
granted more than 28,000 loans to first-time buyers and
started offering 95 per cent loan-to-value mortgages as part
of the UK government’s ‘Help to Buy’ scheme. HSBC also
won the Moneyfacts award for Best Bank Mortgage Provider
for the fifth year running.
In mainland China, we streamlined our mortgage application
process, halving our turnaround time and enabling a decision
in principle to be made in under an hour. We also introduced
a mortgage application that can be completed using a tablet
computer.
In the USA, we continued to work with the Federal Home
Loan Bank of New York to offer ‘First Home Club’, a savings
and education programme that assists low-income families to
raise the down payment required to buy their first home.
In Mexico, the number of customers we helped to buy
a property through a mortgage more than doubled, to
nearly 10,000.

Supporting customers in financial
difficulty
We support customers facing financial difficulty in a
challenging global economy. Across Europe, frontline
specialists have been trained to offer an income and
expenditure review for customers who are likely to face
difficulty in making repayments to HSBC in the near future.
We also assist customers affected by natural disasters. In
the Philippines in 2013, we offered a ‘general restructured’
facility for customers both in arrears and otherwise, and
offered payment holidays to those affected by Typhoon
Haiyan. In Australia, we offered hardship relief on mortgage
repayments to customers affected by bushfires in New
South Wales. Each relationship manager contacted more
than 270 customers living in hazardous areas to offer them
hardship relief on their mortgage payments if required.
In early 2014, parts of the UK were affected by serious
and prolonged flooding. HSBC offered immediate financial
support to affected customers. HSBC also telephoned
agricultural customers affected by flooding to offer help. We
sent insurance claims managers to some of the worst-hit
areas, such as Somerset and the Thames Valley, to ensure
claims were processed as quickly as possible. Staff in our
personal insurance call centres worked additional hours to
ensure calls and claims were dealt with immediately, with
most calls answered within 20 seconds.
For further information on how HSBC responds to natural
disasters, see ‘Community Investment’, page 25, and
‘Business contingency’, page 20.

We also reviewed all our retail, wealth management and
HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

9

Chapter 2. Customers (continued)

Supporting customers into retirement
Commissioned by HSBC, The Future of Retirement is
a world-leading, independent research study into global
retirement trends, providing authoritative insights into the key
issues associated with ageing populations and increasing life
expectancy around the world. Since the programme began
in 2005, it has canvassed the views of more than 125,000
people worldwide.
In 2013, we published two global reports: A new reality and
Life after work? The latter compares the real-life experience
of today’s retirees with the views and expectations of those
still working towards retirement. It also provides practical
steps to help people secure a more comfortable retirement.
These reports help us to meet the needs of our customers,
raise public awareness worldwide of the necessity to prepare
for retirement, and contribute to industry initiatives and policy
reviews, most recently in Switzerland, France and the UK.

existing and targeted investee companies, as well as helping
them to acquire a more holistic view of the issues.
We have also upgraded our corporate governance and
stewardship practices. Firstly, a global voting policy has
been established. This overarching set of principles defines
a global framework for the local policies required in many
jurisdictions to support our proxy voting activities.
Secondly, and in accordance with our fiduciary duties, we
have initiated a global engagement programme. Each quarter
we question a group of investee companies regarding the
quality of their corporate governance, for example, board
structure and minority shareholders. If appropriate, we
challenge their lack of compliance with global norms and
treaties, such as the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact.
These actions are covered in the annual Responsible
Investment Transparency Report, which is published on the
UN Principles for Responsible Investment website.

To see all global and country reports, visit
hsbc.com/retirement.

UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance
In 2013, HSBC signed up to the UN’s Principles for
Sustainable Insurance (PSI), a global sustainability framework
of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance
Initiative (UNEP FI). Its aim is to help insurance companies
manage their environmental, social and governance
challenges.
PSI provides a significant opportunity for us to meet the
expectations of our customers, shareholders, employees
and other stakeholders. A recent example of this is our Value
for Money initiative, which provides a globally consistent
approach to assessing the prices of our 350 insurance
products to the benefit of both the customer and the
business. We aim to build a position of trust with customers
by making the right decisions in product pricing, design and
development. All new insurance products are now subject
to the Value for Money minimum standards which have
been integrated into our product development and approval
processes throughout the organisation. We are also working
together with our insurance partners to implement Value
for Money uniformly across third party and manufactured
products.

Financial inclusion and education
In Vietnam, we built on our ‘Personal Financial Management
Training’. Launched in 2012 in Hau Giang province in the
Mekong Delta, the scheme helps young women to improve
their knowledge of spending, saving and budgeting. In 2013,
the programme was extended to Tan Phu and Dong Nai
provinces, reaching 7,000 participants. We also set up an
online banking library, open to all, to provide basic information
about finance and banking. In Mexico, we delivered financial
education to customers through a series of YouTube videos.
Six videos were issued in 2013 on such topics as personal
finances, credit cards, auto loans and payroll. The videos are
also shown in our branches in Mexico.
In New Zealand in 2013, HSBC made free personal financial
reviews available to our retail Premier customers. By gaining
a better understanding of our customers’ future plans,
family circumstances, protection needs and current financial
commitments, our relationship managers were able to
provide information and solutions specific to their customers’
needs and help them to fulfil their financial aspirations.

UN Principles for Responsible Investment

Physical access to branches:
helping customers with disabilities

HSBC Global Asset Management signed up to the United
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment in June 2006.
Since then, we have integrated environmental, social and
governance (ESG) criteria across our investment platform.

We aim to help our customers to access their accounts
in the most convenient way for them. We continue to
improve physical access to our branches for customers with
disabilities.

In 2012, HSBC introduced a new policy to require all Equity
and Credit analysts to incorporate ESG analysis into their
fundamental research following a period of training. In
2013, to ensure ESG input is embedded on a daily basis in
all our business locations, we set up a network of 22 ESG
champions, who have been given 20 hours of online ESG
training. Being portfolio managers and analysts themselves,
they are well placed to provide guidance to their colleagues
and raise potential concerns regarding the application of ESG
issues to Equities and Fixed Income strategies.

In Argentina, we began to fit ATMs with audio kits for
customers who are hard of hearing and plan to have at least
one such facility in place at all branches by the end of 2014.
We are also increasing the number of branches with ramps
to improve physical access: 89 per cent now have ramps
in place, with another six per cent being constructed in
2014. The remaining five per cent of branches are due to be
relocated.

All our 550 investment professionals have access to a global
proprietary ESG database which holds the most current
research from specialist third party providers. This tool
enables the analysts to assess ESG risks and the quality of
10

All our standard forms, such as terms and conditions, product
request applications and price lists, are available in Braille free
of charge.
In Hong Kong, we have offered Braille statements to
customers since 2006 and remain one of the few banks to do

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

so. We also support the Hong Kong Guide Dogs Association,
with all of our branches allowing guide dog access.
In Canada, our upgraded ATMs now feature paperless bill
payments and voice guidance in English, French, Cantonese
and Mandarin.

Supporting commercial clients
We have launched a series of funds to help small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with international
ambitions to succeed in the global economy. SME funds
were set up in the UK, Egypt, Malta, Turkey, France, Mexico,
the USA and Canada during 2013. In the UAE, we launched
our fourth SME fund, an AED1 billion (US$272 million)
scheme for international trade customers. A total of
US$13.3 billion has been made available.
Our Commercial Banking business encourages SMEs to
adopt sustainable business practices. In Hong Kong, for
example, we run the HSBC Living Business programme.
Established in 2004, this initiative informs local businesses
about sustainability-related issues through seminars,
company visits, networking events and a dedicated website.
It received 1,030 applications in 2013 – a record number. The
annual Living Business Awards showcase SMEs that improve
their competitiveness and productivity by incorporating
environmentally sustainable practices into their operations.

International Exchange Programme
HSBC’s International Exchange Programme brings global
businesses closer together and equips our clients with
knowledge and market insights to facilitate their growth in
the world’s faster-growing markets.

families on how to set up a foundation for a chosen charity or
cause in which all family members can actively participate.

Tax transparency
As a global bank, HSBC supports clients’ domestic and
international banking requirements. To reduce the risk that
clients could use our services to evade their tax obligations
– which could result in legal, regulatory and reputational
consequences for HSBC and our clients -- we ask our
clients to undergo an anti-money laundering and ‘know-yourcustomer’ programme before they can use our services.
In 2013, Global Private Banking began to implement a new
internal standard to ensure that HSBC’s banking services
are not associated with any arrangements that are known,
or suspected to be designed, to facilitate tax evasion by our
clients. The new standard involves an assessment of our
induction procedures, our current customer profiles and
our products in order to identify and deal with potential
tax evasion.
Global Private Banking clients have their own tax reporting
obligations. HSBC does not provide tax advice but, where
staff know, or have reasonable grounds for suspecting, that
a potential or existing client may be using HSBC’s services
to evade taxes, they must follow the standard anti-money
laundering escalation procedures, including the filing of
a suspicious activity report where appropriate. HSBC will
refuse to establish an account with a new client or terminate
a relationship with an existing client if our knowledge or
suspicions are not adequately addressed. We devoted
considerable effort, time and expense to this initiative during
2013 and the process continues in 2014.

In 2013, four International Exchange Programme events
were held in Singapore, Guangzhou, Mexico City and
Istanbul to provide leadership development and networking
opportunities for more than 300 corporate clients from
around the world. We work closely with local government,
trade bodies and central banks to provide the best possible
insight and information for these customers.

Wealth management and customer
philanthropy
Building on our Commercial Banking heritage, the primary
focus of our Global Private Banking business is to be
the private bank of choice for the owners and principals
of HSBC’s corporate clients. Our approach to wealth
management focuses on meeting our customers’ aspirations
in five key areas: family protection; educating children;
retirement; managing and growing wealth; and legacy
planning.
HSBC’s Global Private Banking business also helps clients
who want to use their wealth for philanthropic purposes,
linking wealthy individuals and their families with important
social causes. We help clients to involve their children in
decision-making about philanthropy. Some families want
to inculcate philanthropic values in their children and
grandchildren so that they appreciate the value of wealth and
understand the responsibility of managing money, as well
as learn about governance, investment management and
stewardship. For example, Global Private Banking can advise
HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

11

Chapter 2. Customers (continued)

Climate Business
Environmental and social changes present opportunities as well as risks for our
customers and for our own business. We recognise that an important element
of sustainability is to seek the commercial opportunities that arise from the
transition to a low-carbon economy.

Business solutions that reduce carbon emissions or enable
society to adapt to climate change bring environmental and
social benefits as well as a commercial return. We call this
climate business.
These types of opportunities arise in the solar, wind,
biomass, energy efficiency, low-carbon transport and water
sectors. HSBC’s Commercial Banking, and Global Banking
and Markets businesses use knowledge and insight about
these sectors to identify opportunities and close deals.

What is ‘climate business’?
We define climate business as long-term commercial
business opportunities that arise in the transition to a
low-carbon economy. These cover three areas:
• Increasing the share of low-carbon energy production,
such as bio-energy, solar and wind;
• Improving energy efficiency in buildings, industry and
transport, as well as energy storage; and

Collaboration driving climate
business
Collaboration between our Global Banking and Markets and
Commercial Banking businesses has been recognised by
Asiamoney magazine as a key factor in HSBC’s success
in investment banking. Climate business deals involve
rapidly growing companies. We are able to offer traditional
investment banking services to growing climate business
customers to help them meet their goals and encourage a
long-term banking relationship with HSBC.
Collaboration across our global businesses was instrumental
in the success of a number of climate business deals in
2013. For example, HSBC was joint global co-ordinator and
senior bookrunner in the capital increase and first initial
public offering (IPO) in the Nasdaq of a Spanish corporate
since 2010, a leading engineering and clean technology
company. We were also financial adviser for raising project
finance for two renewable energy projects in South Africa – a
138-megawatt wind farm and a 75-megawatt solar park.
Building on our trade links, we were financial adviser for the
acquisition of a Dutch waste-to-energy company by an Asian
infrastructure consortium. In the USA, HSBC was bookrunner
on an equity offering for the world’s largest thin-film
photovoltaic solar module manufacturer and provider of solar
power system solutions. We also supported an Omani power
and water company that focuses on desalination with an IPO,
the largest in Oman in 2013.

Investor insight
One of the challenges of climate business is attracting
investors to the sector. HSBC provides tools and services
to institutional clients to assist their investment decisions.
For example, in 2013 HSBC’s Climate Change Centre of
12

• Adapting to the impacts of climate change, particularly
in agriculture, infrastructure and water.

Greater Gabbard: UK project bond
Greater Gabbard is a 504-megawatt wind farm 40
kilometres off the coast of Suffolk in England. In 2013,
HSBC arranged a project bond to enable a consortium
of infrastructure investors to purchase a high voltage
subsea link connecting the wind farm to the UK’s
national grid. This was the first time a UK offshore
transmission link had been financed in the capital
markets, offering a precedent for future deals using the
same model.

“Gabbard was a landmark
transaction, giving confidence
that the market is there.”
Katrina Haley
Head of Structured Bonds, HSBC

Excellence, part of HSBC Global Research, produced around
60 research notes on such themes as scoring climate change
risk, pollution in China, and responses to the fifth climate
change assessment report from the UN Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change. The analysts were ranked in the
top three by the Thomson Reuters EXTEL awards for the
fourth year in a row.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Climate Change Benchmark Index
HSBC also runs a Climate Change Benchmark Index, used
by institutional investors to make decisions about investing
in companies likely to benefit from the responses to climate
change. The strongest performing sectors change over time,
according to markets and commercial viability. In 2013, the
sixth year of the index, out of the 21 identified themes,
energy efficiency performed the strongest. Controlling
costs and careful use of resources continue to be priorities,
benefiting companies offering energy efficiency products and
services.

Identifying future potential: ‘green bonds’
In 2013, HSBC Global Research identified an increasing use
of bond markets to raise capital for the low-carbon economy.
The issuance of specifically labelled ‘green bonds’ has been
rising rapidly. HSBC research showed that the green bond
market grew fivefold in 2013 to US$10 billion.
HSBC adopted new green bond issuance principles –
drawn up in consultation with a number of leading financial
institutions – at the end of 2013. The principles are designed
to help issuers launch green bonds, and to guide institutional
investors with an appetite to invest in environmentally
responsible projects, including renewable energy and waste
management.
‘The Green Bond Principles are an excellent initiative to
increase transparency and disclosure in this market, and to
foster continued growth in investments which help combat
climate change,’ commented Ulrik Ross, Managing Director
Financing Management, HSBC.
In the first quarter of 2014, HSBC acted as joint lead
manager on the European Investment Bank’s new £500
million six-year Climate Awareness Bond. Driven by socially
responsible investors in the UK, this bond is earmarked for
disbursements to the bank’s lending projects within the fields
of renewable energy and energy efficiency. The transaction
follows the bank’s environmental briefing in London in
December 2013, which was co-hosted by HSBC.

Bus rapid transit
HSBC is a market leader in structuring solutions for bus
rapid transit (BRT) systems. In 2013, HSBC was successful
in bidding for a BRT deal in Rio de Janeiro for improving its
transport infrastructure ahead of global sporting events in

HSBC climate business by sector 2013
%

17

Bio-energy

Transport

27

Graham Smith
Director of Export Finance, HSBC

2014 and 2016. Other cities where HSBC has completed
similar transactions are Johannesburg, Panama City, Bogotá,
Manaus, Curitiba, Mexico City and Santiago.
BRT networks use new fuel-efficient buses to provide
quick, safe, easy and cost-effective transport solutions.
Passengers can pay for their travel in advance and the
buses have dedicated lanes to bypass heavy traffic. In 2013,
HSBC worked with Embarq, the World Resources Institute
programme for sustainable urban transport and planning, to
research the environmental, social and economic impacts of
BRT systems on cities. The research shows that by shifting
to BRT systems, commuters can save millions of hours
of travel time, road fatalities are significantly reduced, and
carbon emissions are lowered. For example, Embarq found
that, in Istanbul, the average passenger on the BRT saved
28 workdays per year in reduced travel time. By reducing
local air pollution and emissions, the BRT line in Mexico City,
which serves 800,000 passengers daily, has prevented more
than 2,000 days of lost work (due to illness), four new cases
of chronic bronchitis and two deaths per year, saving an
estimated US$4.5 million.
HSBC teams in Global Banking and Commercial Banking
in various countries and regions joined forces to structure
the finance for these deals. Our expertise in BRT projects
highlights HSBC’s commitment to global trade within the
context of climate business.

HSBC climate business by region 2013
%

Water and waste

North America

23

Energy efficiency

Asia-Pacific

23
Wind

19

Middle East
and Africa

6
4

Solar

“With sustainable mobility,
cities can become more
successful and attractive to
business and citizens. Bus rapid
transit offers the means to
connect people to economic
and social opportunities in a
sustainable way for long -term
growth in cities.”

Latin America

52

Europe

6

14
9

The charts above show the global spread and sector scope of our climate business in 2013. Solar power deals are up compared with 2012, reflecting a renewed
strength in parts of the sector, driven by industry consolidation and price reduction following an earlier oversupply of solar cells.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

13

Chapter 3. Sustainability Risk

Our Sustainability Risk Framework
HSBC’s approach to sustainability risk was first introduced in 2002. Our
objective is to ensure that the financial services HSBC provides to its customers
to facilitate economic development do not result in unacceptable impacts on
people or the environment.

We take social and environmental issues seriously, in terms
of the impact poor management could have on our own
business and on the wider world. We seek a balance of
economic, social and environmental factors by following
international good practice on environmental and social risks.

Sustainability risk
HSBC focuses its policies on sectors which may have
an adverse effect on people or the environment and in
which we have a significant number of customers. HSBC’s
policies cover the following industry sectors: Agricultural
Commodities; Chemicals; Energy; Forestry; Freshwater
Infrastructure; Mining and Metals; and World Heritage Sites
and Ramsar Wetlands. We also have other policies including
a Defence Equipment Policy. They are available on our
website at www.hsbc.com/sustainability.
Our policies apply to the main financing products which we
provide to business customers, such as loans, trade finance
and debt and equity capital markets services. They
do not apply directly to our asset management business,
whose customer is the investor, resulting in a lower
degree of influence over the investment itself. Our asset
management business has a separate engagement policy
on sustainability issues.
We engage with customers, where appropriate, and support
them in moving towards good practice, which we believe
is one of the major ways we can contribute to sustainable
development. However, we close banking relationships with
customers when they are unwilling or unable to comply with
our standards.

Policy development
In 2013, we continued to develop our policies to retain good
standards in a changing market and social context, including
simplifying them to improve the effectiveness of their
implementation. A major project was to engage with internal
and external stakeholders on the revision of our forestry
policy, which was issued in early 2014.
HSBC was one of the first banks, in 2004, to introduce a
Forest Land and Forest Products Policy to tackle issues
such as deforestation and the rights of forest communities.
As part of our review of this policy, we consulted and listened
to the views of companies, certification schemes, trade
bodies, NGOs, investors and auditors and also internally
within HSBC.
14

We engaged Proforest, an independent international
organisation that advises on sustainable natural resource
management, to benchmark our policy against the
wider corporate sector and make recommendations for
improvements. Proforest found that HSBC’s policy compared
extremely well with the rest of the sector in terms of its
technical scope. Proforest also made recommendations for
improvement, most of which we incorporated.
As a result of this and our wider review, we have improved
our standards, extended the scope of the policies and
tightened up the implementation process. The following
actions have been taken:
• Our forestry policy has been separated out into three
policies covering forestry including logging; agricultural
commodities; and World Heritage Sites and ‘Ramsar’
Wetlands. This was partly the result of recommendations
from Proforest and reflects the different issues and
management approaches involved in these three types
of business.
• We set a requirement for forestry customers to gain 100
per cent certification by the Forest Stewardship Council
(FSC) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest
Certification in high risk countries by 31 December
2014. Previously, we required 70 per cent certification.
Certification requires that customers are operating legally
and sustainably.
• We set a requirement for palm oil customers to become
members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
(RSPO) by 30 June 2014, to have at least one operation
certified by the end of 2014, and all operations by the
end of 2018. We also now apply our palm oil standards to
traders and refiners as well as to growers.
Many of our customers already meet these standards and
we believe more will meet our deadlines. If customers are
unwilling or unable to achieve the standards by the deadlines,
we will end these banking relationships. To support our
customers and sustainable development in this sector, HSBC
has developed a specific product – discounted finance for
RSPO-certified palm oil – that will be offered from 1 July 2014
to incentivise trade in sustainable palm oil and encourage
customers to achieve RSPO certification more rapidly.
We also recognise that independent certification needs to be
strengthened to protect people and the environment more
effectively. HSBC has committed to provide support to RSPO
as well as FSC, Bonsucro – which sets a standard for sugar
cane production – and the Roundtable for Responsible Soy
to develop their organisations, improve their standards and
strengthen their processes.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

We will report on the impact of our new policies in 2015. In
2013, we commissioned PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC)
to conduct a compliance review of our implementation of the
previous foresty policy and will report on the findings once
they are available.

Implementation and training
Our network of specially trained Sustainability Risk Managers,
present in 27 countries, supports policy implementation in
each region. We also provide online sustainability risk training
through a tailored e-module. From 2011 to the end of 2013,
6,729 employees globally had completed this training.
In 2013, 172 additional senior managers were trained in
sustainability risk as part of HSBC’s Risk Management
Programme across nine sessions in different locations
including London and Hong Kong.

Equator Principles
The Equator Principles provide a framework for banks to
manage the risk of a negative impact on local people and
on the environment that may arise from financing large
projects. HSBC adopted the Principles when they were
launched in 2003. Our Project and Export Finance teams
are trained to analyse a proposed transaction in line with
the requirements of the Equator Principles. This initial
assessment by the business team involves identifying and
flagging any contentious sustainability risk issues at an early
stage to the relevant risk and sustainability teams. Detailed
due diligence is conducted by the business team and the
proposal is submitted for approval by the risk team, with
higher risk transactions requiring higher levels of approvals. If
the transaction is approved, annual review procedures are in
place to ensure that the risks continue to be monitored and
managed until the end of the life of the loan.

As part of our commitment, we report the number of
transactions we have reviewed using the Principles, and
provide an additional breakdown by sector and by region,
seen in the charts below. Since 2012, we have exceeded
the minimum requirements by also reporting the number
of projects located within high-income OECD countries; the
number of Category A and B projects where an independent
expert review has been completed; and the number of
transactions where we have extended the Principles to export
credit loans. While it is not a requirement, we also arrange an
annual independent audit of our application of the Principles
to ensure HSBC has implemented the Principles accurately,
as we believe this is helpful to us and to other stakeholders.
This year’s assurance report, provided by PwC, can be found
on page 35.
Of the 31 transactions assessed (see page 16), 23 per cent
are extended transactions, which means HSBC applies the
Principles to a loan because the proceeds are being used
to finance a project. The number of lending transactions
decreased overall and particularly in oil and gas, reflecting
a downturn in market volumes both in Project and Export
Finance and increased competition from other market
participants. The proportion of power deals in the renewables
sector is also down, partly due to more challenging market
conditions, for example cuts to subsidies in many markets.

Equator Principles: loans by region of borrower
by % value 2013

24

Americas

32

Europe,
Middle East
and Africa

44
Asia-Pacific

Development in 2013
Following an update, a new set of Principles, ‘EP3’, has
been agreed by more than 75 banks. HSBC supported the
Equator Principles Association during the revision process
and welcomed the new direction set by EP3, but would
support strengthening the Principles even further. Indeed,
we have been implementing some parts of the new EP3
framework voluntarily for some time. For example, we have
always voluntarily extended the scope of the Principles
beyond pure project finance to other loans and quasi-loans
for projects. The new framework introduces changes to
public reporting requirements, including a requirement for an
online summary of the environmental and social assessment,
and reporting on greenhouse gas emissions for projects
exceeding 100,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide annually during
the operational phase.
Since the new version was launched in June 2013, HSBC
has aligned its own policy to implement EP3 requirements,
including developing templates and delivering training.

Equator Principles: loans by industry sector
by % value 2013

26

Mining and metals

Transport

26

Power

2
4

13
Infrastructure

Other
28
Oil and gas

1
Telecommunications

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

15

Chapter 3. Sustainability Risk (continued)

Equator Principles: transactions vetted by HSBC (see PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ‘Assurance Report’ on page 35)
2011
Number

Transactions approved

2012

Value
(US$m)

Number

Value
(US$m)

2013
Number

Value
(US$m)

63

4,643

67

5,779

49

4,937

42
21

4,643
0

48
19

5,779
0

31
18

4,937
0

9
24
9

1,432
2,274
937

12
26
10

2,499
2,781
499

9
19
3

1,627
3,083
227

28
14

2,889
1,754

26
22

4,133
1,646

24
7

3,807
1,130

9
12
21

948
1,349
2,346

13
13
22

1,457
1,568
2,754

8
9
14

1,187
2,178
1,572

9
3
14
10
1
2
3

853
411
1,881
931
215
151
200

6
6
10
21
1
1
3

652
726
2,008
2,095
75
2
221

6
5
8
9
1
1
1

625
1,300
1,406
1,276
52
100
178

–
–
5
45
7

–
–
477
50
8

29
11
10
48
21

4,509
1,772
862
41
15

22
12
3
33
10

3,446
2,262
298
23
6

By mandate
Lending
Advisory

Loans by category1
Category A
Category B
Category C

Loans according to scope of EP 2
Standard transactions
Extended transactions

Loans by region
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Europe, Middle East and Africa

Loans by industry sector
Infrastructure
Mining and metals
Oil and gas
Power
Telecommunications
Transport
Other

Loans under additional EP3 reporting
Category A and B projects with an independent review
Category A, B and C projects in high-income OECD countries

Renewables
% of power
% of total

1 Category A: projects with potentially significant adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented.
Category B: projects with potentially limited adverse social and environmental impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and
readily addressed through mitigation measures.
Category C: projects with minimal or no social or environmental impacts.
2 We extended Equator Principles to export credit loans (extended transactions), the procedures for which are presented in our Reporting Guidelines
(www.hsbc.com/sus-assurance).

Sustainability Risk in action: Mexico
HSBC’s Sustainability Risk Managers encouraged the
financing of a highway construction project designed to
protect the biodiversity of the local area, by re-routing a
busy road away from a protected site. The project involved
the construction of a highway which is part of the main
route between Mexico City and the Gulf of Mexico. HSBC’s
client, Autovia Necaxa-Tihuatlan S.A. de C.V., is constructing
the 36.6-kilometre section which includes six tunnels, 12
bridges, vehicle underpasses, underpasses for animals to
access habitat, and more than 100 drainage works.
Before agreeing to the project, HSBC risk managers
investigated the project’s proximity to a Natural Protected
Area and Ramsar site, and concluded that the project
would actually improve the protection of the site, as the
new road will carry traffic away from the more sensitive

16

parts of the area. HSBC ensured that the client protected
flora and fauna, for example by removing, protecting and
then replacing rare orchids, and reforesting 1.2 million
trees, which also created jobs and training opportunities
for members of the community.
As a result, three times the vegetation lost to the
project has been re-planted. Owing to the importance
of the Natural Protected Area the client, together with
the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources,
established an environmental education programme in
local schools and also for the project workers, 80 per
cent of whom were from local communities. HSBC
has continually monitored its application of the Equator
Principles by reviewing quarterly environmental and social
reports and by making a site visit.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Chapter 4. Operations

Our Sustainable Operations Strategy
For HSBC, sustainability is about our
long-term contribution to society and
this includes managing our own
environmental footprint. Our goal is to
support innovation in environmental
efficiency throughout our operations
and along our supply chain.
By working with supply chain partners and collaborating
within HSBC to improve environmental efficiency, we aim
to reduce our annual carbon emissions per employee from
3.5 to 2.5 tonnes by 2020. HSBC’s Sustainable Operations
strategy, established in 2012 to meet this objective, covers
10 areas of focus. Our progress towards meeting these
operational sustainability goals is reported in this chapter.
In 2013, our energy consumption and carbon emissions
fell as we operated our data centres more efficiently,
improved the energy efficiency of our building portfolio,
and streamlined the organisation. Our paper consumption
and waste generated also declined significantly as staff
took up the challenge. Since 2011, annual employee carbon
emissions have reduced from 3.5 to 3.4 tonnes per full-time
employee equivalent (FTE).

Looking ahead
In 2013, we assessed our strategy and approach to
operational sustainability by benchmarking it against our
financial services peer group and corporations leading in
sustainability across the world. As a result of the review, in
2014-15, we will lead on renewable energy procurement,
sustainable paper sourcing and managing our supply chain
sustainably. We will continue to collaborate across HSBC’s
global businesses and global functions to achieve the
10 goals we set out below.

Operational sustainability goals
2012–20
Sustainability engagement: encourage employees
to deliver improved efficiency by 2020
Progress in 2013
We trained an additional 255 senior managers as part of
our Sustainability Leadership Programme, bringing the total
number of alumni to 627. This programme has been critical
to ensuring that we have senior level understanding of
what operational sustainability means to each business and
function within HSBC and that we have leaders who are
accountable for delivering our goals. See page 23 in ‘Valuing
our Employees’ for further details. We also engaged the top
4,000 staff in our operational functions so they understand
the strategy and that they have a responsibility to contribute
to achieving our goals. Programmes to involve additional
employees in our operational functions have been set up in
the majority of our operational centres including Hong Kong
SAR, Mexico, Brazil, Canada, France, Malaysia, mainland
China and India.
For example, one programme in Guangzhou, China, involves
employees in scientific field research training. This approach
builds employees’ knowledge and enthusiasm to deliver
HSBC’s sustainability operational goals. 386 employees have
taken part so far.
Plans for 2014
In 2014, we are focusing on engaging key employees in
HSBC’s global businesses and global functions – in addition
to those in our operational functions – who are in a position
to support the operational sustainability strategy. We are
also expanding our programme of engagement activities for
suppliers. We will run three-day residential workshops with
our key strategic vendors to make sure we are collaborating
in the best way to achieve our goals.

21%

Business owner
Sustainability Engagement Head,
HSBC Technology and Services

reduction in waste disposed

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

17

Chapter 4. Operations (continued)

“HSBC has been working to reduce its impact on the environment
for many years. What we have found is that it’s only when our
people are truly engaged in sustainability and understand the
imperative to act that change really happens.”
Sean O’Sullivan
Group Chief Operating Officer

Supply chain collaboration: sustainable savings
through efficiency and innovation
Progress in 2013
Our policies and processes ensure suppliers integrate
sustainability into the products and services delivered to, or
on behalf of, HSBC. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and Core
Sustainability Assessment and our Paper Sourcing Policy set
out our standards. Our Supplier Performance Management
processes include sustainability criteria and we have also
collaborated with our strategic global vendors to embed
sustainability into contracts and deliver shared sustainability
goals.
In 2013, we collaborated with suppliers to reduce our global
energy consumption in data centres and the real estate
portfolio and to ensure that the paper used for marketing is
sustainably sourced.
Plans for 2014
In 2014-15, we will continue to work with our major suppliers
to collaborate on initiatives to deliver our 10 goals. We will
conduct assessments of our main suppliers’ approach to
sustainability to inform our sourcing decisions and review our
supply chain for sustainability risk issues.
Business owner
Chief Procurement Officer, HSBC

HSBC Eco-efficiency Fund: US$5 million annually to
develop new ways of working, based on employee
innovations
Progress in 2013
In 2013, we allocated US$5 million to fund sustainability
innovation across HSBC’s operations. This included
US$0.5 million for a trial of energy-efficient LED lighting in
branches in Hong Kong. The bulbs are up to 60 per cent
more efficient. The project achieved payback in just one year,
and the new lighting is being rolled out globally.
We also completed a pilot to assess efficiency improvements
to cooling infrastructure across our European data centre
operations. To date, we have realised annual savings of
US$100,000 and 67 tonnes of carbon emissions.
To highlight and reward the success of the projects
originating from this seed funding, a new category was
added to our annual internal Group Chief Operating Officer
awards. Our Sustainability Excellence award is for initiatives
that trial new technologies and innovation that are scalable
across HSBC. In 2013, the award was won by HSBC in
Malta for its ‘Simply ELECTRIC’ initiative – photovoltaic panel
installations that are large enough to power our ATM network
and charge three electric vehicles.
Plans for 2014
We will continue to promote awareness of the Eco-efficiency
Fund and encourage employees to develop their own
initiatives across all global businesses and functions.
Business owner
Group Chief Operating Officer, HSBC

30%

reduction in paper consumption

18

US$80,000
monthly saving from energy
efficiency in data centres

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Energy: reduce annual energy consumption per
employee by 1MWh

Renewables: increase energy consumption from
renewables to 25 per cent from zero

Progress in 2013
While our energy consumption per employee has not
come down since 2011, we reduced our overall energy
consumption by a further 7 per cent in 2013 bringing our
total reduction since 2011 to 12 per cent. Around 3 per
cent of these savings came from energy efficiency projects
implemented by our Corporate Real Estate teams, and
the remainder was a result of consolidating our real estate
portfolio and closing offices as part of restructuring the
business. In January 2013, JLL became HSBC’s Global
Facilities Management provider. This five-year agreement
includes a contractual commitment to reduce HSBC’s energy
consumption each year, which is being achieved by energy
champions who closely manage HSBC’s property portfolio.
We have focused on ‘intelligent’ lighting, introducing more
flexible temperature levels, and improving the efficiency of
our heating and cooling systems. We continually assessed
the portfolio against our own in-house sustainability
guidelines, which are based on internationally recognised
standards.

Progress in 2013
In 2012, we developed our renewable energy strategy
and, in 2013, initiatives were launched in three markets
working with renewable energy generators through power
purchase agreements. These renewable energy sources will
provide 17 per cent of our renewable target. In 2013, we
also reset our baseline to 0 per cent as we will only count
newly constructed energy sources which are additional to
renewable energy already available. We have reassessed
the 2020 goal and amended it to 25 per cent, down from
the original target of 40 per cent. We will no longer pursue
our previous target to source 5 per cent renewables on site
because of difficulties with the urban location and lease
arrangements of our sites.

Plans for 2014
We will continue to work with JLL as well as other stategic
vendors to achieve efficiencies.
Business owner
Global Head of Corporate Real Estate, HSBC

Waste: use less, and recycle 100 per cent of our
office waste and electronic waste
Progress in 2013
In 2013, we achieved a 21 per cent reduction in waste
disposed. In addition, we maintain a recycle rate at over 60
per cent of total waste.
Plans for 2014
While options for waste disposal vary across the world,
our objective is to avoid sending any waste to landfill. We
have commissioned an independent assessment of waste
management to help us define a global waste strategy to
achieve this. In 2014 we will build the global infrastructure to
ensure no electronic waste goes to landfill.
Business owner
Global Head of Corporate Real Estate, HSBC

Plans for 2014
We will sign power purchase agreements with renewable
energy generators and start construction, and assess other
markets for future development.
Business owner
Global Head of Corporate Real Estate, HSBC

Green buildings: design, build and run energy
efficient, sustainable buildings to the highest
international standards
Progress in 2013
While we recognise the value of external accreditation, we
have also developed our own green building standards to
ensure sustainability opportunities are exploited and used to
create a more productive workplace. Our standards reflect
international standards such as LEED and BREEAM.
Plans for 2014
We will build on our knowledge of designing, building and
operating LEED accredited buildings and, in 2014, will
implement ‘OpenWork’, an initiative that will provide a more
flexible, productive and collaborative office environment.
Openwork will allow HSBC staff to work from multiple
locations using smart technology. This will also mean we
can use less office space per head and introduce sustainably
procured fixtures and fittings. We will assess the benefits
of ‘green lease’ arrangements and look for opportunities
to introduce them. As most of our portfolio is leased, this
is potentially a far-reaching step, and allows us to extend
HSBC’s sustainability approach across more of our buildings.
Business owner
Global Head of Corporate Real Estate, HSBC

Assurance of HSBC’s total CO2
emissions
HSBC’s statement of total carbon dioxide emissions
is included in the Key Facts table on page 34. HSBC’s
Reporting Guidance for emissions is available at
www.hsbc.com/sus-assurance. See
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP assurance report, page 35.
HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

19

Chapter 4. Operations (continued)

Data centres: achieve an energy efficiency (power
usage effectiveness) rating of 1.5
Progress in 2013
We achieved our power usage effectiveness target of 1.75
for 2013, down from 1.79 in 2012 and 1.90 in 2011. This is an
industry efficiency standard and 1.5 is a stretching target for
the financial services industry. The strategy to reduce energy
use in our data centres has resulted in nearly US$80,000 per
month in 2013 in energy savings. This equated to 658,000
kWh of electricity and 250 tonnes of carbon dioxide saved
each month. Initiatives included the introduction of ‘cold
aisle containment’, which improves the efficiency of cooling
systems; the elevation of data hall temperatures, which
reduces the amount of work the cooling systems have to
undertake; and the introduction of more energy-efficient
lighting.
Plans for 2014
We will aim to achieve a power usage effectiveness of 1.71.
To acheive this stretching target we will work with external
experts and supply chain partners; progress our global ‘quick
wins’ programme that was piloted and delivered positive
reductions in 2013; continue to install variable speed drives;
and find more opportunities to elevate control temperatures
across our data centres.
Business owner
Global Head of IT Operations, HSBC

Travel: reduce travel emissions per employee
Progress in 2013
In 2013, our travel increased in terms of kilometres travelled.
However, HSBC’s carbon emissions and carbon emissions
per employee from travel remained static compared to 2012
levels. Although air travel rose, this was offset by a reduction
in HSBC’s car fleet and the move to more efficient vehicles
in 2013.
HSBC continues to invest in the technology required to work
collaboratively and remotely. In 2013, we used 425 million
minutes of audio conferencing, 286 million minutes of webex
and 1.2 million more video conferencing minutes each month
compared with 2012.
However, we acknowledge that our business travel needs to
be managed more efficiently.
Plans for 2014
New technology being rolled out will also enable HSBC to
introduce a new voice/video and instant messaging tool,
offering more ways to collaborate. HSBC is significantly
updating its collaboration technology, including an initiative
to enable employees to use their own mobile devices. We
will continue to focus on encouraging staff to travel more
efficiently.
Business owner
Chief Procurement Officer, HSBC

20

Paper: paperless banking available for all retail and
commercial customers and 100 per cent
sustainably sourced paper
Progress in 2013
In 2013, IT Operations signed a global contract with HP to
operate more efficient ‘managed print’ across the whole
Group. We achieved a reduction of 9.5 per cent in internal
print and the global contract will bring standard devices with
secure print together with a common print policy which
should reduce internal printing even more. A global customer
correspondence project, which started in 2013, aims to
halve transactional print volumes by the end of 2016 by
offering customers opportunities to move to mobile and
internet banking and electronic communications. To date a
6.5 per cent reduction has been achieved in transactional
print volumes.
Overall, HSBC reduced paper consumption from 40,000
tonnes in 2012 to 28,000 tonnes in 2013.
Plans for 2014
By the end of 2014, we will have rolled out the first phase
of the ‘managed print’ programme, scheduled to be
implemented globally by the end of 2016. As part of the
global customer correspondence project, more documents
will be converted to electronic format. We will continue to
work with our strategic marketing print vendors to reduce
the number of suppliers and consolidate management
information helping to drive reductions. HSBC will continue
to ensure paper and all paper-based products comply with
our Paper Sourcing Policy, which requires purchasing to have
a chain of custody certificate to either Forest Stewardship
Council or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest
Certification standards.
Business owner
Global Head of Service Delivery, HSBC

Business contingency
HSBC’s Business Contingency team puts processes
in place to identify potential risks, and minimise their
disruption to our operations. These can be local risks
such as flood or fire; regional or national weather events
such as hurricanes and natural disasters; or global issues
such as a flu pandemic and cyber-crime. We work with
geologists to identify buildings vulnerable to earthquakes
and volcanic eruptions. Our geopolitical unit is also in
contact with governments around the world to monitor
emerging political flashpoints and we analyse how longterm trends, such as climate change, may affect our
business in the future.
Climatic extremes occured around the world in 2013.
In September, two windstorms simultaneously hit
both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of Mexico. HSBC’s
contingency team monitored the storms on our tracker
system and prepared local operations for landfall, such
as protecting buildings. As a result, no staff were injured
and damage to our facilities was limited.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Chapter 5. People

Valuing our Employees
Our employees are vital to HSBC’s
long-term, sustainable success.
To help them deliver the Group’s purpose and strategy in line
with our values, we support employees in five key ways:
• We aim to attract, retain and motivate the best people and
ensure our remuneration policy supports this objective.

Main centres of employment 2013
000s

31

India

Mexico

• We provide training and development opportunities
to enable our employees to acquire the technical and
leadership skills they need to enhance their careers.

Other

USA

UK

19

Mainland China

• We actively manage succession planning, identifying
talented individuals and providing them with opportunities
to fulfil their potential.

46

22

18

Brazil

9

16
73

29

France
Hong Kong SAR

• We are committed to a diverse and inclusive culture that
reflects our varied customer base.
• We encourage our employees to get involved in the
communities in which they work.
At the end of 2013, HSBC had a total headcount of 263,000
full-time and part-time employees, compared with 270,000
at the end of 2012 and 298,000 at the end of 2011. Our main
centres of employment are shown in the chart on the right.

HSBC Values
We require high standards of behaviour from all our
employees and expect them to act with courageous integrity
in the execution of their duties at every level. HSBC’s values
of being open, dependable and connected form part of
appraisals for every employee, including the most senior
managers. In 2013, our values and business principles were
instilled through induction and other learning programmes
covering Group strategy, leadership and professional skills.
Over the year, nearly 135,000 employees received values
training, in addition to 103,000 in 2012. Our Behavioural
Guide outlines what we expect from employees in terms
of behaviour and adherence to HSBC’s values and business
principles. In 2013, a number of employees left the Group for
breaching our values.
To achieve a values-led, high performance culture, we
introduced a new interactive workshop for senior leaders.
They are being coached to listen, be open to other people’s
views, and engage in honest and meaningful conversations.

135,000

employees received
values training in 2013

This encourages co-operation and high performance, as well
as building commitment to making sustainable, principled
decisions which support HSBC’s priorities and values.
In 2013, of the 3,000 employees who attended this
workshop, 1,300 were our most senior executives. A further
20,000 middle managers will attend the workshop in 2014.

Whistleblowing
The HSBC Group operates a global Compliance Disclosure
Line (telephone and email) which is available to allow
employees to make disclosures when the normal channels for
airing grievances or concerns are unavailable or inappropriate.
The Compliance Disclosure Line is available to capture
employee concerns on a number of matters, including
breaches of law or regulation, allegations of bribery and
corruption, failure to comply with Group policies, suspicions
of money laundering, breaches of internal controls and fraud
or deliberate error in the financial records of any Group
company. Global Regulatory Compliance is responsible
for the operation of the Compliance Disclosure Line and
the handling of disclosure cases. Each case is reviewed
and referred for appropriate investigation. The disclosure
is acknowledged (when contact details are provided) and
the employee is advised when the investigation has been
concluded. Global Regulatory Compliance may also be made
aware of whistleblowing cases made directly to senior
executives, line managers, Human Resources and Security
and Fraud, and will investigate accordingly.
Additional local whistleblowing lines are in place in several
countries, operated by Security and Fraud, Human Resources
and Regulatory Compliance. When such lines are established,
processes are put in place to escalate relevant disclosures
made on the local whistleblowing lines to Global Regulatory
Compliance or Financial Crime Compliance. Global Regulatory
Compliance also monitors an external email address for
complaints regarding accounting and internal financial
controls or auditing matters (accountingdisclosures@ hsbc.
com highlighted under Investor Relations and Governance on
www.hsbc.com). Cases received are escalated to the Group
Chief Accounting Officer, Group Finance Director and Group
Chief Executive as appropriate.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

21

Chapter 5. People (continued)

Attracting, retaining and motivating
our people
Employee turnover
Overall employee turnover in 2013 was 19 per cent, a
decrease of 4.5 percentage points from 2012. This reduction
was reflected across all regions and management levels.

Rewarding performance
We base remuneration on the achievement of financial and
non-financial objectives. These objectives, which are aligned
with the Group’s strategy, are detailed in individuals’ annual
performance objectives. To be considered for a variable pay
award, an individual must have fully complied with HSBC’s
values. If the assessment of performance subsequently
proves to be inaccurate or incorrect, then malus can be
applied on unvested deferred awards made since 2010
by the Group Remuneration Committee. Malus has been
exercised annually since 2011.

In 2013, 59 per cent of our workforce participated in the
survey, 20 percentage points below the average score
for the financial services sector. The overall engagement
score was 68 per cent, four percentage points ahead of
the industry norm, but eight points behind the best-in-class
benchmark. Areas with particularly high scores were risk
awareness (81 per cent, nine points above best-in-class),
leadership capability (67 per cent) and living the HSBC Values
(77 per cent). Employee development improved significantly,
from six points lower than the best-in-class benchmark in
2011 to three points higher in 2013. However, pride and
advocacy were 12 and 13 points below best-in-class norms
respectively and had fallen from 2011 levels. To address this,
in 2014 we will focus on tangible improvements in areas
such as performance management.

HSBC Exchange

In 2011, HSBC embarked on the most significant change
programme in its history, unveiling a new business strategy
amid unprecedented turmoil in the financial sector. We put
values at the centre of our new strategy and decided that
all businesses and functions would be managed globally.
However, a sense of community to unite employees was
For further information on risk and remuneration, see the
report of the Group Remuneration Committee on page 360 of needed. A new type of team meeting called ‘Exchange’ was
piloted in the Middle East and North Africa in July 2012,
the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
with more than 2,500 employees participating in over 250
meetings. The initiative was then rolled out globally and, in
Employee engagement
2013, more than 112,000 people took part in at least one
Exchange meeting.
High levels of employee engagement are linked to positive
commercial outcomes, improved business performance,
In 2013, Group Chief Executive Stuart Gulliver launched
increased customer satisfaction, higher productivity, better
Exchange Online. This gives employees the opportunity to
talent retention and reduced absenteeism.
ask questions and vote for the top three, which he answers
in a quarterly video. In the first two periods of Exchange
The HSBC Global People Survey helps us to understand
how our employees feel about working at HSBC. The survey Online alone, employees asked 126 questions and cast
14,000 votes. In some cases, important issues highlighted by
covers such key areas as employees’ pride in working for
the business; their understanding of Group strategy and risk; employees are escalated to the Group Management Board to
effect change.
and how motivated and supported they feel in achieving
the Group’s purpose. The survey was held annually from
2007 to 2011, and every two years since. The latest survey,
in 2013, focused on a values-led, high performance culture
by assessing our employees’ commitment to the Group’s
purpose and their ability to deliver on our ambition to become
the world’s leading international bank.

Attracting new employees
For our business to be sustainable, we need good people
to work for HSBC. In 2013, we improved our rankings in
some key global employer surveys:
Universum’s global top 500 world’s most attractive
employers for new graduates
(Survey of 200,000 business students across 31 top
economies)

“Rather than second guessing,
this is a real example of how
communication flows up
through the organisation and
allows us to understand what
everybody in the organisation
is thinking and how we can act
on that.”
Simon Cooper
Chief Executive, Commercial Banking, HSBC

HSBC ranked 26th overall in 2013 and 4th in the
financial services sector
Universum’s Asian top 50 employers
(Survey of 62,000 respondents in Australia, China, Hong
Kong, India, Japan and Singapore)
HSBC ranked 6th overall (24th in 2012) and 2nd in the
financial services sector

22

Succession planning
Our talent strategy aims to ensure that we have highquality candidates, who understand our Global Standards
and exemplify HSBC’s values, to fill key positions and meet
the Group’s business needs. Our succession plan defines
the number, distribution and types of roles and capabilities

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

needed by HSBC and we then match talented individuals
to these roles. This defines the individual’s career path and
development plan. In 2013, we assessed and identified the
career development needs of 24,000 senior employees with
the potential to become future leaders.
This strategy supports our growth aspirations in emerging
markets, where we have increased the proportion of
defined talent from 39 per cent in 2012 to 41 per cent in
early 2014. ‘Defined’ talent includes employees in key
business areas, such as in emerging markets, current high
performers and those identified with future potential. In
2013, 25 per cent of country CEOs in emerging markets
were local nationals. We closely monitor local nationals as
short-term and medium-term successors to key leadership
roles and, in 2012, established baselines of 23 per cent and
19 per cent, respectively, both of which improved to 25 per
cent in 2013.
The Group Graduate Development Programme is an
intensive leadership development scheme for high-potential
employees at a more junior level. In 2013, 278 graduates
took part.

Developing and training our people
Developing our employees effectively is essential if our
businesses and operations are to prosper. We take a
systematic approach to identifying, developing and deploying
talented employees to ensure a robust supply of high-calibre
individuals with the values, skills and experience required for
senior management positions.
We continue to update our approach to training to improve
the quality of our curricula and ensure employees are
equipped with the technical and leadership skills to operate in
a globally aligned matrix environment. We are standardising
our training to ensure employees in all our markets have a
high-quality and consistent experience.
In 2013, HSBC delivered 988,000 learning days, equivalent to
3.99 days per full-time employee, 59 per cent of which were
delivered online. This represents an increase of 3.7 learning
hours per employee compared with 2012.
In 2013, 49 of our most senior executives attended the
Senior On-Boarding programme. This provides newly
recruited senior managers with a broader understanding
of HSBC’s strategy, key business areas, customers, culture
and values, as well as the opportunity to build a global
network.

Union recognition
We negotiate and consult with recognised unions
as appropriate. The five countries with the highest
concentrations of union membership in the Group are
Argentina, Brazil, mainland China, Malta and Mexico. Our
policy is to maintain well-developed communications and
consultation programmes with all employee representative
bodies, with the result that there have been no material
disruptions to our operations from labour disputes during the
past five years. In countries with no formal union recognition,
we have other mechanisms to ensure positive two-way
communication with our employees, including employee
surveys, senior management blogs, face-to-face meetings
and elected consultative bodies.

Sustainability Leadership Programme
The Sustainability Leadership Programme celebrated its
fifth year in 2013. Since the first programme was launched
in North America, this sustainability engagement initiative
has trained 627 of HSBC’s leaders about the science and
implications of climate change, with 255 attending in
2013. It challenges individuals to create a more sustainable
business and participants have contributed more than
11,000 hours of original scientific research. Graduates of
the programme implement environmental improvements
across the organisation to help achieve our operational
sustainability strategy. The programme will run a further 17
times in 2014.

Health, welfare and safety
The physical and psychological health, welfare and safety of
our people is our legal and moral responsibility. We recently
introduced a global occupational health framework, which
requires the proactive management of employee welfare
and encourages the sharing of best practice across the
Group. In 2013, 94 per cent of all HSBC employees and
relevant contractors carried out our online health and safety
training, up from 93 per cent in 2012. Employees must
carry this out during their first 60 days of employment and
once every two years thereafter.
We have global policies, standards and guidance for health
and safety management and are introducing globally
consistent processes to monitor and reduce health and
safety risk.
We also run a number of employee assistance programmes
tailored to local requirements. Skilled professional
counsellors are available on free phone lines 24 hours a day,
seven days a week to help employees manage personal or
work-related problems that create stress and affect their
work. Free face-to-face counselling is also provided, as
is support for partners and dependants. Programmes are
offered in the UK, Hong Kong, North America and India.

Creating a diverse and inclusive
culture
HSBC is committed to a diverse and inclusive culture in
which employees’ views are encouraged and their concerns
are addressed. Bias, discrimination and harassment on any
matter, including gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality
and disability, are not tolerated; and promotion is based
on merit. Our culture helps us respond to our increasingly
diverse customer base and to develop and retain a secure
supply of skilled, committed employees.
Our employee resource groups are integral to HSBC
being a meritocratic and inclusive organisation. We have
over 50 groups globally which raise awareness, educate,
and address challenges and opportunities in the way we
attract, retain and engage under-represented groups. They
cover areas such as age, race, sexuality, gender, ethnicity,
disability as well as underlying differences such as beliefs,
ways of thinking and lifestyles; acting as a resource to
help HSBC achieve our inclusion objectives. Over 11,000
employees are members of our employee resource groups,
all of which receive support and guidance from executive
sponsorship.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

23

Chapter 5. People (continued)

Unconscious bias

Case study: supporting United
Arab Emirates nationals in HSBC
Increasing the proportion of local nationals in the
workforce is an increasing priority for regulators and
governments in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Currently, only 0.5 per cent of private-sector roles are
filled by UAE nationals.
HSBC, which has been in the UAE longer than any other
international bank, has developed a plan to develop local
nationals as well as a sustainable business.
Achievements in 2013 included:
• The identification of a ‘ones to watch’ list of UAE
nationals in junior career bands in order to develop
a talent pool, and the creation of career bands in
order to develop a programme to support them.
During 2013, 25 per cent of participants achieved a
promotion.
• UAE National Graduate Development Programme, a
two-year development programme with four sixmonth structured rotations in different functions
within the same business line. To date, 49 graduates
have enrolled.
• Launched in 2012, the HSBC Business Academies
programme -- a one-year development scheme that
gives UAE nationals who are new to banking the skills
and experience to succeed -- has attracted 18 UAE
nationals to join the bank, one of whom has been
promoted to a senior branch manager.

Social behaviour may be driven by learned stereotypes
that operate unconsciously and can lead to a less inclusive
working environment. Since 2011, we have been addressing
this through ‘unconscious bias’ training. This was delivered
through e-learning to 8,300 managers and nearly 50,000
employees in 2013, compared with 21,000 managers and
8,000 employees in 2012.
We will continue to tackle unconscious bias in 2014 through
targeted education; encouraging the development of a
diverse talent pool, with an emphasis on women and local
nationals; reinforcing a bias-free approach to performance
management; improving internal and external candidate lists;
connecting and leveraging our employee resource groups;
and maintaining a consistent framework for governance and
sponsorship.

Engagement in local communities
We encourage our employees to get involved in their local
communities through a wide range of volunteering activities.
There is an increasing focus on pro bono activity, through
which employees can put their professional skills and
knowledge to good use outside the workplace. During 2013,
our employees volunteered for 409,911 hours of their own
time in activities supported by HSBC, and 255,925 hours of
work time. Every HSBC employee is entitled to take at least
one day off per year to participate in volunteering activities.
For more information, see ‘Community Investment’, page 25.

Gender balance
We continue to focus on the representation of women at
HSBC, particularly at senior levels. We are addressing bias
in hiring, promotions and talent identification; expanding
mentoring and sponsorship; introducing better support
for returning parents; and increasing flexible working
opportunities and building a strong pipeline of future female
employees. Speaking at the Women’s Foundation in Hong
Kong in 2013, Group Chief Executive Stuart Gulliver made
clear his commitment to ensuring that HSBC makes the
most of everyone’s potential. In 2013, we held a conference
in London to give female students a taste for careers in
banking, with many attendees subsequently applying for our
graduate programme; and two conferences in New York for
existing female employees.
Global female representation was 52.3 per cent at 31
December 2013. The representation of women at senior
levels rose from 21.4 per cent in 2010 to 22.7 per cent in
2013; our target is to improve this to 25 per cent by 2014-15.
The proportion of females in our talent pipeline improved
from 25.8 per cent in 2010 to 32.2 per cent in 2013, while
female representation on the Group Management Board
increased from 10 per cent (one out of 10) to 19 per cent
(three out of 16) in December 2013. We have expanded
uptake of flexible working, worked closely with employee
resource groups and have improved our metrics and
monitoring approach.

32.2%

females in talent pipeline
24

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Chapter 6. Community Investment

Our Approach to Community Investment

As an international bank, HSBC has
a responsibility to invest in the longterm prosperity of the communities
we serve.

In 2013, we donated US$117 million globally to our
community investment programmes. These initiatives are
run through partnerships with global and local organisations
and focus on our two main community investment themes:
education and the environment.
HSBC’s work on education aims to help young people reach
their potential so that they can make a positive contribution
to their community and wider society. HSBC invests in
environmental programmes because the changing climate
and pressure on critical natural resources affect global
economic development, particularly in emerging markets.
A significant proportion of our support for environmental
programmes is invested in the HSBC Water Programme
(see page 29). The remainder of our funding is allocated to
local priorities, including emergency assistance following
natural disasters.
HSBC has formed partnerships with the NGO and charity
sectors, some of which have been in place for over a decade.
We look for partner organisations that share our vision and
values to ensure we are working towards the same goals and
have a complementary approach. When forming partnerships
with global organisations, a similar geographic footprint is
beneficial from a management perspective and to support
the communities in our areas of operation. However, we
also take into account a consideration of where the need is
greatest. All projects must have lasting benefits.

21

30
Environment

49

Simon Martin
Head, Global Corporate Sustainability, HSBC

When deciding on which projects to invest in, HSBC is
guided by four principles.
Programmes should:
• be both globally significant and locally relevant;
• allow us to use our business skills in the way we manage
our partnerships: we want to run proactive, long-term
projects with defined objectives;
• give us the opportunity to deploy the skills of our
employees as well as provide funding; and
• be engaging and inspiring for our people.

Disaster relief
When disasters occur, we check whether our employees
and their families are safe and provide help where needed,
such as flexible working arrangements, compassionate leave,
temporary accommodation and interest-free loans to affected
employees. We communicate global updates to colleagues
as quickly as possible after a disaster, posting news on our
intranet sites and broadcasting follow-up stories through our
internal TV channel, HSBC NOW.
As part of our community investment programme, HSBC
provides money to support disaster relief based on need. We
ensure that we listen to local colleagues and support the bestplaced charities on a case-by-case basis.

Community investment donations:
breakdown by category 2013
%
Other

“Our long-term partnerships with
charities build trust, promote
sustainable change and support
their organisational
development.”

Education

In 2013, Typhoon Haiyan caused devastation in the
Philippines, leading to an extremely testing time for many
customers, employees and their relatives. HSBC donated
US$1 million to the Philippine Red Cross to help with the
relief effort. Our employees in the Philippines raised money,
donated aid, volunteered their time and gave logistical
support. HSBC employees from around the world also
donated a total of US$136,058. Customers and employees
in the UK donated more than £387,000 (US$604,000) to
the Disasters Emergency Committee Philippines Appeal
through our ATMs and online. This was the fastest and most
generous response to a crisis appeal that we have seen
through our ATM network.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

25

Chapter 6. Community Investment (continued)

Education

Globally, HSBC invests around US$50 million a year in charitable education
projects and thousands of employees volunteer to take part in them.
Our education programmes focus on six main areas of young
people’s development: access to education; emotional
well-being; employability and entrepreneurship; cultural
awareness; financial literacy; and life skills.

HSBC works in partnership – often over many years – with
charitable organisations chosen for their expertise and ability
to make a difference in our areas of focus. Our contribution
includes not just funding but also employee volunteering time.

US$57 million in 2013 to help young people reach their potential: a snapshot

Programme examples:
18,000 children
helped to develop
coping skills through
the ‘Zippy’s Friends’
programme in Latin
America in 2013

3,000 young
people in the UK
secured work,
education or
training in the
first six months of
our Opportunity
Partnership

Emotional well-being
Removing some
of the barriers young
people face when
they are trying to learn

Employability and
entrepreneurship

Equipping young
people with business skills
and entrepreneurship
so they are ready for
the world of work and
can start businesses
of their own

Access to education

Getting young people
back into education or
learning when they have
dropped out of the system.
Providing scholarships
and bursaries to give them
the best education
opportunities regardless
of background

Helping young
people realise
their potential

Cultural awareness

Providing international
and cultural
understanding
so young people are
able to compete on
the global stage

Life skills

Financial literacy

Providing financial
literacy so young
people know how to
manage their money

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

862,000 children in
60 countries helped
by Future First
since 2006

Providing basic life skills
every young person
needs such as literacy
and numeracy

2,500 young people
have entered the
Mandarin Chinese
Speaking Competition
since 2003

26

Programme examples:

‘Kids Read’
involved 192
schools, 25,000
students and 300
HSBC volunteers

69,000 young people
learned about finance
through the JA More than
Money programme

Limited 04-06-14

“Education can make a difference between a lifetime of exclusion
or becoming an active citizen. It paves the way to decent jobs,
healthy livelihoods and opportunites that go hand in hand with
sustainable development.”
Simon Etherington
CEO, SOS Children’s Villages, UK

Supporting young people in the UK:
employability and entrepreneurship
Every year, HSBC’s UK Young People Programme donates
£14 million (US$22 million) to charities working on education,
life skills and entrepreneurship. The programme helps
more than 41,000 young people each year and provides
volunteering opportunities for more than 2,000 employees.

Financial literacy
Financial literacy is often a subject that is taught too late in
life, or not at all. A core life skill, financial literacy fosters both
social and financial inclusion and has been an important focus
of HSBC’s community investment for many years.

HSBC works with JA Worldwide -- the world’s largest
organisation dedicated to educating young people about
financial literacy -- on the global financial programme, JA
As part of this programme, in April 2013 we launched a threeMore than Money. We relaunched this initiative with JA
year, £30 million (US$47 million) Opportunity Partnership
in 2014, making a further three-year commitment in 31
to help 25,000 young people to get into education, work
countries. It teaches students around the world about
or training. We are working with charity partners Catch22,
earning, spending, sharing and saving money, as well as
St Giles Trust, The Prince’s Trust and Tomorrow’s People,
about entrepreneurship and potential careers. During the
which specialise in the employment, training and education
first five years of the programme, from 2008 to 2013, more
of disadvantaged young people. The partnership targets
than 5,200 HSBC employees volunteered to teach financial
disadvantaged 16 to 25 year-olds who face difficulty at
literacy, helping a total of 319,000 students. In the 2012-13
school, college or work because they lack confidence, skills
academic year, more than 69,000 students benefited from
or the support of a stable home. In the first six months of
the programme, with 900 HSBC volunteers taking part. In
the partnership, the initiative helped 3,000 young people to
2013, the partnership was strengthened when Mayu Avila,
secure a place in education, training or work.
HSBC’s Head of Corporate Sustainability for Latin America,
was appointed Chair of the JA Americas Regional Board.
In 2014, we are piloting a four-week vocational training
Other senior HSBC employees sit on JA regional and local
course to help disadvantaged young people gain the skills
boards across the world.
and experience to access entry-level job opportunities, such
as cashier or counsellor, at HSBC. Forty-five young people
began the scheme in January 2014, with 250 due to take
part by December. Our aim is that at least 50 per cent of
the young people who complete the course will succeed in
Access to education: scholarships
joining HSBC’s existing apprenticeship programme.
HSBC awarded its first scholarship in 1965. Today, we
provide more than 6,000 scholarships globally every year to
students with strong academic potential from disadvantaged
areas or families, enabling them to attend a school or
university supported by the programme.

US$34m

One example is the Chevening Scholarships, the UK
government’s global scholarship programme, managed by
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. The programme
makes awards to outstanding scholars with leadership
potential from around the world to study postgraduate
courses at universities in the UK. Since 2000, HSBC has
supported 390 Chevening Scholarships. We currently support
40 scholars from 19 countries.

donated to Future First since 2006

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

27

Chapter 6. Community Investment (continued)

Access to education:
Consortium for Street Children

Cultural awareness: British Council
China Programme

HSBC has been working with the Consortium for Street
Children (CSC) since 2011. CSC is a global network that
amplifies street children’s voices, promotes their rights and
improves their lives through advocacy, research and network
development.

HSBC research indicates that China will be the world’s
largest economy by 2050. Learning the language is critical
to understanding the culture of a country. HSBC’s China
Programme in the UK began in 2000 in partnership with the
British Council, with a focus on learning the language and
culture of the country. Initially, this involved head teacher
study tours to China and 11 Chinese language assistants
teaching in UK schools. Since then, the partnership has
grown to encompass a wide range of programmes. Our
China Programme enables more than 10,000 young people a
year to be taught Mandarin Chinese and Chinese culture:

In January 2013, HSBC supported the first shared learning
hub, specific to issues related to street children, to enable
organisations to collaborate, address challenges and develop
good practices. This virtual hub, together with an Avivafunded research hub, comprises CSC’s Global Resource
Centre. Through our global Future First education programme
and in partnership with Tesco and Aviva, we supported the
2013 International Day for Street Children.

Access to education: Kids Read
In partnership with the British Council, HSBC’s Kids Read
education programme began in 2011 to encourage the
reading of English for both academic purposes and pleasure
among primary school children in the Middle East and North
Africa. It is now present in nine countries, encompassing
more than 192 schools, 25,000 students and 300 HSBC
volunteers. Its success means it will be extended to Asian
countries in 2014.

A strong partnership: SOS
Children’s Villages
Around the world, 68 million children of school age are
not getting a primary school education, and many more
are receiving a poor one. SOS Children’s Villages runs
nursery, primary and secondary schools and essential
vocational training, making sure young people receive
the education and training they need to realise their
potential and become active members of society.
SOS Children’s outreach programmes also ensure that
children in the wider community are able to benefit.
HSBC has been working with SOS Children since 2004
in a global partnership and has donated at least US$1
million annually since then.

• Chinese language assistants are qualified teachers from
China who spend one academic year in the UK teaching
Mandarin Chinese and Chinese culture. Since 2000, 730
teachers have taken part.
• The Mandarin Chinese Speaking Competition aims to
encourage greater interest in UK schools about Chinese
language and culture by promoting the teaching of
Mandarin Chinese as a modern foreign language. More
than 2,500 young people have entered the competition
since 2003. The winners earn a trip to Beijing to explore
Chinese culture further.
• Mandarin Chinese immersion courses are held for
British primary schoolchildren during their school summer
holidays during which language and culture are taught in a
fun and engaging way.
• The Institute of Education Confucius Institute’s
Mandarin Chinese for Primary Schools Programme
will develop the teaching of Mandarin Chinese in more
than 120 schools over the next five years. This involves
the establishment of a primary school Chinese network,
alongside the Confucius Institute’s existing Chinese
network for secondary schools.

In 2006, HSBC established Future First, our flagship
global education programme, which aims to tackle
child poverty through education projects. SOS Children
is a key partner, alongside other not-for-profit
organisations. HSBC has so far donated US$34.3 million
through Future First, helping nearly 862,000 children
in 60 countries.
The partnership continues to flourish. HSBC employees
are using their professional skills and knowledge to work
with their SOS Children counterparts. For example,
HSBC employees in London have worked on a project
to help identify and target future funding streams for
SOS Children. In 2013, we introduced an opportunity
to sponsor a child through SOS Children as one of the
optional benefits for UK employees. SOS Children has
also been selected as the charity to benefit from the
2014 Triathlon, a staff event in the UK.
28

10,000

young people a year are taught
Mandarin Chinese and Chinese culture

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

HSBC Water Programme

Continued economic development is underpinned by the health of the world’s
ecosystems and resources. Many of the world’s major freshwater systems are
under strain from population growth, economic development and climate change.

The global water challenge
With an estimated global population of nine billion by 2050,
the pressure on water supplies will continue to grow and, by
2025, 65 per cent of the world’s population will live in waterstressed regions. Lack of safe water and sanitation has vast
economic, social and humanitarian implications.
Understanding these impacts and putting in place strategies
to deal with them, such as HSBC’s environmental
partnerships, will benefit generations to come.

Our programme
Launched in 2012, the HSBC Water Programme is a five-year,
US$100 million partnership with three global NGOs which
rank amongst the world’s most respected environmental
and development organisations. The partnership between
HSBC, Earthwatch, WaterAid and WWF approaches water
challenges from important angles: scientific research, safe
water and sanitation and freshwater stewardship. Each
will help us to understand better the main factors affecting
freshwater quality and how to tackle the problem, as well as
providing hundreds of thousands of people with access to
clean water and sanitation, and protecting the biodiversity of
important river systems.

Case study: Citizen Science
Leaders in action
Over five years, the HSBC Water Programme will
engage 7,500 HSBC employees in freshwater research
to become Citizen Science Leaders. The Earthwatchtrained citizen scientists will collect more than 13,000
measurements in over 1,000 aquatic ecosystems in
cities around the world, dedicating over 41,000 hours to
freshwater research. Currently, these citizen scientists
are conducting research in 24 highly populated urban
areas across the world. In Brazil, for example, 124
HSBC Citizen Science Leaders have already contributed
227 data sets on urban freshwater quality to assist
Earthwatch’s research partner, the University of São
Paulo. An HSBC citizen scientist recorded a high nitrate
reading near a water spout used for drinking, which has
brought the problem to the attention of the government
authorities.

HSBC’s employees are involved in the programme by
volunteering to become Citizen Science Leaders.

24

cities have urban freshwater
research projects

72

stakeholder groups engaged to
conserve the Pantanal in Brazil
HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

29

Chapter 6. Community Investment (continued)

HSBC Water Programme targets and 2013 achievements
Five-year targets 2012-16

Achievements to December 2013

Earthwatch
• Set up freshwater research projects in over 20 cities
worldwide, working with local research partners to
address specific local issues
• Engage 7,500 HSBC employees in these projects
to become Citizen Science Leaders, collect data on
freshwater quality and biodiversity, and engage a further
100,000 people to learn about water challenges and
participate in freshwater monitoring

• Urban freshwater research projects up and running in
24 cities with eight further projects due in early 2014
• Over 1,600 HSBC Citizen Science Leaders trained
• Growing number of participants in freshwater research
projects – initial focus is the HSBC Citizen Science
Leaders, who are being trained to involve others
• Over 28,000 employees and non-employees are
participating in online learning and discussion forums
on thewaterhub.org, a new website for the HSBC
Water Programme
• A citizen science portal has been set up enabling
HSBC employees to upload water quality data and to
communicate with their colleagues and water scientists
around the world

WaterAid
• Ensure access to safe water for 1.1 million people and
sanitation for 1.9 million in Bangladesh, India, Nepal,
Pakistan, Ghana and Nigeria
• Work in both urban and rural areas using community-led,
sustainable approaches
• Support livelihoods by improving the health of
communities and reduce time spent on collecting water
• Provide water and sanitation facilities in schools and
hygiene education, including menstrual hygiene for girls
• Influence national and local government to prioritise water
and sanitation services

• 416,041 people provided with safe water
• 513,344 people provided with sanitation
• Water and sanitation committees formed in 1,053
communities globally
• Hygiene education sessions have been provided in
1,527 schools
• 398,843 people have received hygiene education
• 500 people trained as mechanics to maintain new water
systems
• 57 HSBC employees have been trained as volunteer
WaterAid speakers to communicate the NGO’s
messages

WWF
• Ensure new practices and policies are implemented to
protect rivers and freshwater resources in five regions in
Asia, South America and Africa; the Yangtze, Ganges and
Mekong river basins; the Pantanal and the African Rift
Valley (Mara)
• Take practical conservation action for 1,500 kilometres of
river and 350,000 hectares of wetland
• Help 1,500 small to medium-sized businesses to tackle
water risks, including efficiency and pollution
• Enable 115,000 people to reduce fishing or farming
impacts on water, whilst potentially improving food
security and livelihoods

Ganges and Mekong basins – river flow studies have been
finalised which will improve river management
Mekong – food security of 5,000 people is supported by the
setting up of 15 new fish conservation zones in Thailand
Yangtze – a common method has been agreed for
monitoring impacts of the Three Gorges dam on spawning
patterns of Chinese carp. Pilots under way with a dairy
group and textile mills to reduce water pollution and
over-consumption
Pantanal – 72 stakeholder groups have expressed formal
interest in a future ‘Pantanal Pact’ to conserve wetland
headwaters
Mara – 12 new Water Resource Users’ Associations
comprising 4,500 members set up to manage water
resources and involve 20,000 local people within the basin

30

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

“The provision of safe water has had a very positive impact on
health conditions and health expenditure. This is a real
transformation in the lives of local people.”
Girish Ghanashyam Sohani
President and Managing Trustee, BAIF Development Research Foundation

Local project funding
In addition to the funding given to Earthwatch, WaterAid
and WWF, the HSBC Water Programme is donating to
charities which can manage small local water projects.
HSBC employees can apply for funding for charities to set
up such projects in their local area. We have made a total of
US$35 million available. By the end of 2013, US$15.5 million
had been allocated to 33 projects in 19 countries including
Sri Lanka, Malta, India, the UK and Brazil.
Employees in HSBC’s Global Banking and Markets business
received funding to reduce the consumption of polluted
groundwater in the Madhurgiri District of Bangalore in India.
Here, the only water source from deep wells contains high
levels of fluoride, which can lead to fluorosis – a condition
that causes severe tooth decay, bone deformities and
debilitating joint problems. Working with a local charity, the
BAIF Development Research Foundation, the three-year
project will improve water quality in six villages by harvesting
rainwater. Local families will be helped to construct 1,000
rain collecting and filtering tanks. Each tank has the capacity
to supply clean water to an average household for one year.
Global Banking and Markets employees have the opportunity
to conduct research, run awareness campaigns and help
with project management. In the first year of the project,
190 rainwater structures have been constructed and, as
local people now understand the link between their health
problems and the groundwater, more of them want to be
involved, supporting the long-term sustainability of the project.

Case study: sanitation and
entrepreneurship working hand
in hand
WaterAid has been working in the small community of
Dohani-Yepala in northern Ghana to improve access to
safe water and sanitation. Before WaterAid’s arrival,
residents relied on a large pond for all their water
needs. In 2013, with HSBC Water Programme funding,
WaterAid’s local partners mobilised residents to form
a water and sanitation management team and installed
a water point, from where community members can
collect safe water. WaterAid partners also trained
volunteers to build and maintain their own latrines. As a
result of this training one resourceful resident, 30-yearold Sulemanna Alhassan, has built over 30 latrines for his
community, free of charge, taking only small payments
in kind. Word spread and he now has a full-time job
constructing latrines in other communities, where he
negotiates a fair price. Not only has Sulemanna vastly
improved local sanitation facilities, he also earns a steady
income for himself and his family.

Case study: healthy rivers, healthy businesses, healthy communities
When local communities and businesses located near rivers are empowered and involved in decisions that affect the
health of the river and their livelihoods, a more balanced and positive outcome can be reached for all parties. This is the
approach taken by WWF in the Indian city of Moradabad on the Ramganga, a tributary to the Ganges, where the NGO
trained local people to assess the health of the river and to communicate the results to help local stakeholders make
the case for change. In April 2013, over 2,000 people took part in a WWF Ramganga walkathon to raise awareness
of the worsening state of the Ganges. Later in 2013 a visitor centre, Ramganga Choupal, was launched to showcase
the importance of conservation and sustainable agricultural practices. The centre is used by schools, businesses,
government staff and the general public to provide information on the challenges facing the Ganges, such as pollution
by Moradabad’s brassware industry. WWF’s dialogue with the Export Promotion Council for Handicrafts, a body of 600
brassware exporters, has resulted in the signing of an agreement to undertake water risk assessments in a sample of
the businesses.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

31

Appendices

Key Facts
2013

2012

2011

75
263,000
254,000
54 million

81
270,000
260,591
58 million

85
298,000
288,316
89 million

32nd
12.2
4th
member
non-member
1st
Performance band
A
Disclosure score
97

33rd
11.4
3rd
member
member
4th
B
86

32nd
11.8
1st
member
member
1st
A95

Units

Number of countries and territories with HSBC offices
Total number of employees including part-time (at year-end)
Full-time equivalent (FTE) number of employees (at year-end)
Number of customers

Benchmarks
Interbrand top 100 brands position
Brand value: Interbrand
Top 500 bank brands: The Banker magazine
FTSE4Good (since 2001)
Dow Jones Sustainability Index
Hang Seng Sustainability Index
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)

US$b

Economic
Total operating income
Profit before tax (on reported basis)
Distributions to shareholders and minority interests
Employee compensation and benefits
General administrative expenses including premises and procurement

US$m
US$m
US$b
US$b
US$b

78,337
22,565
10.2
19.2
17.1

82,545
20,649
8.7
20.5
20.0

83,461
21,872
8.3
21.2
17.5

US$m

8,607

9,349

8,052

US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m

2,517
2,210
1,249
205
318
105
106
68
86
34
39
307
3,724
3,570
2,332
842
152
142
102
154
249
213
0
98
115
36
412
412
127
285
1,684
1,645
1,003
317
325
39
21

2,777
2,406
975
439
354
209
184
106
86
32
21
371
2,852
2,700
1,566
679
200
161
94
152
481
443
209
120
114
38
1,247
1,247
803
444
1,979
1,874
1,213
391
270
105
13

2,386
2,017
1,031
163
373
148
102
59
80
39
22
369
2,850
2,627
1,464
619
234
235
75
223
238
202
41
71
90
36
604
604
276
328
1,942
1,887
1,239
267
381
55
32

Taxes paid by country in priority growth markets
Total taxes paid
Analysed as:
Hong Kong and Asia-Pacific
Priority markets
Hong Kong
China
India
Australia
Malaysia
Indonesia
Singapore
Vietnam
Taiwan
Other markets
Europe
Priority markets
UK
France
Germany
Switzerland
Turkey
Other markets
Middle East and North Africa
Priority markets
Saudi Arabia
United Arab Emirates
Egypt
Other markets
North America
Priority markets
USA
Canada
Latin America
Priority markets
Brazil
Argentina
Mexico
Other markets
Other
32

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

2013

2012

2011

263,000

270,000

298,000

%
%

92.0
8.0

91.6
8.4

91.7
8.3

%
%

99.0
1.0

99.3
0.7

99.2
0.8

%
%
%
%
%

27.6
43.6
8.5
17.1
3.3

27.6
42.2
8.8
18.2
3.2

26.6
40.6
11.0
19.0
2.8

%
%
%
%
%
%

13.6
20.3
19.1
24.8
13.1
19.0

16.8
21.3
46.4
26.8
15.1
23.4

15.2
22.1
22.6
19.4
16.8
19.7

%
%
%

9.8
15.5
22.5

14.2
20.6
26.1

14.8
16.4
22.6

%
%
%
%
%
%
%

69.8
30.7
12.0
13.6
23.7
65.3
8.6

58.1
31.9
17.2
18.8
27.9
44.5
7.2

46.5
22.7
11.6
14.6
25.5
N/A
10.4

%
%
%
%

77/23
55/45
39/60
48/52

78/22
55/45
39/61
47/53

78/22
54/46
39/61
47/53

%
%
%
%
%

45/55
49/51
45/55
47/53
58/42

45/55
49/51
44/56
47/53
59/41

45/55
49/51
41/59
47/53
59/41

0
40
356

0
58
375

0
51
386

Units

Social
Headcount
By employment type
Full-time
Part-time
By employee contract
Permanent
Temporary
By region
Europe
Asia-Pacific
North America
Latin America
Middle East
Employee turnover by region
Europe
Asia-Pacific
North America
Latin America
Middle East
All staff
Employee turnover by management type
Senior managers
Middle managers
Junior staff
Employee turnover by age
Born 1 Jan 1925 - 31 Dec 1945
Born 1 Jan 1946 - 31 Dec 1954
Born 1 Jan 1955 - 31 Dec 1963
Born 1 Jan 1964 - 31 Dec 1978
Born 1 Jan 1979 - 31 Dec 1994
Born 1 Jan 1995 - present
Unassigned (age undisclosed)
Gender
By management type
Senior managers: male/female
Middle managers: male/female
Junior staff: male/female
All staff: male/female
By region
Europe: male/female
Asia-Pacific: male/female
North America: male/female
Latin America: male/female
Middle East: male/female

Health and safety
Number of employee workplace fatalities
Accidents involving more than 3 days' absence per 100,000 employees
All accident rate per 100,000 employees

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

33

Appendices (continued)

2013

2012

2011

117.4
64.4
29.3
11.3
12.4
409,911
255,925
87,963
102,267
24,505
41,190
7.3
12.2
136.9

119.0
60.9
33.4
12.9
11.8
461,196
262,867
89,342
103,948
31,343
38,233
7.9
11.5
138.4

94.5
51.3
16.3
16.7
10.2
464,869
271,611
95,654
97,723
50,220
28,015
8.5
11.1
114.1

%
%
%

49
30
21

48
23
29

54
28
18

%

92

92

95

tonnes
tonnes
tonnes
tonnes
tonnes
tonnes
tonnes

889,000
753,000
136,000
3.43
2.90
0.52
0.19

963,000
825,000
138,000
3.61
3.09
0.52
0.19

991,000
833,000
158,000
3.44
2.89
0.55
0.17

tonnes
tonnes
tonnes
tonnes
tonnes

3.86
3.11
4.31
2.14
4.29

3.88
3.13
5.63
2.25
5.08

3.76
3.01
4.6
2.24
5.83

gigawatt hours
kWh/FTE
kWh/m2
gigawatt hours
gigawatt hours
kilotonnes
kilotonnes
tonnes/FTE
kilotonnes
%
thousand m3
m3/FTE

1,480
6,202
308
1,309
170
39
15
0.06
24
61
3,437
14.4

1,588
6,481
311
1,408
180
53
19
0.08
34
63
3,977
16.2

1,690
6,184
294
1,476
214
61
22
0.08
39
64
4,773
17.5

million km
km/FTE
million km
million km
million km
million km
million km
million km

904
3,791
744
185
559
42
93
26

856
3,493
656
237
419
39
126
36

1,002
3,668
749
71
678
42
148
63

Units

Community investment
Cash charitable donations1
Europe2
Asia-Pacific (including Middle East)
North America
Latin America
Employee volunteering in own time
Employee volunteering in work time
Europe
Asia-Pacific (including Middle East and Africa)
North America
Latin America
Value of employee volunteering hours in work time
Management costs associated with community investment
Total value of community investment
Allocation of cash donations
Education
Environment
Other

US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
US$m
hrs
hrs
hrs
hrs
hrs
hrs
US$m
US$m
US$m

Environment
Reporting coverage as % of Group
Carbon dioxide emissions (after uplift and scale up)3
Total CO2 emissions (assured by PwC)*
CO2 emissions from energy (assured by PwC)*
CO2 emissions from business travel (assured by PwC)*
Total CO2 emissions per FTE
CO2 emissions per FTE from energy
CO2 emissions per FTE from business travel
CO2 emissions per m2
Carbon dioxide emissions per FTE by region (before uplift and scale up)
Total CO2 emissions per FTE
Europe
Asia-Pacific
North America
Latin America
Middle East
Environmental resource efficiency (before uplift and scale up)
Total energy consumption
Energy consumption per FTE
Energy consumption per m2
Total electricity consumption
Primary fuel sources (gas, oil, diesel, etc)
Total waste produced
Waste disposed to landfill
Waste disposed per FTE to landfill
Waste recycled
% waste recycled
Total water consumption
Water consumption per FTE
Business travel (before uplift and scale up)
Total business travel
Business travel per FTE
Air travel
Domestic air travel
International air travel
Rail travel
Road travel
Other travel

1 For comparison purposes, currency values have been restated to reflect the position had foreign currency rates remained constant.
2 2013 and 2012 figures include donations for Bermuda and South Africa, which were previously reported in other regions. The amounts are small and therefore there
is no material change.
3 Our 2013 performance data cover the period October 2012 - September 2013. This enables us to provide data of a higher quality, both quarterly into internal
businesses and functions and annually into the Sustainability Report.
* See HSBC’s Reporting Guidelines and www.hsbc.com/sus-assurance. See PwC’s ‘Assurance Report’, page 35.

34

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Assurance Report
Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of HSBC Holdings plc
The Directors of HSBC Holdings plc (HSBC) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below
and set out in HSBC’s Sustainability Report 2013 for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Our conclusion
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence
we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that
causes us to believe that the Selected Information for the year
ended 31 December 2013 has not been prepared, in all material
respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria.
This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we say below.

Selected Information
The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the information
(the ‘Selected Information’) summarised below:
a) Statement on the application of the Equator Principles for the 12
months to 31 December 2013 on page 16 of the Sustainability
Report 2013; and,
b) HSBC’s total CO2 emissions for the 12 months to 30 September
2013 on page 34 of the Sustainability Report 2013.
Our assurance does not extend to information in respect of earlier
periods or to any other information included in the Sustainability
Report 2013.

Professional standards applied and level of assurance
We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance
with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000
– ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of
Historical Financial Information’ and, in respect of the greenhouse gas
emissions information, in accordance with the International Standard
on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance engagements on
greenhouse gas statements’ (ISAE 3410), issued by the International
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance
engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable
assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment
procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the
procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.

Our independence and quality control
We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and
Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics, which includes independence and
other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity,
objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality
and professional behaviour.
We apply International Standard on Quality Control (UK&I) and
accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control
including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance
with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable
legal and regulatory requirements. Our work was carried out by an
independent team with experience in sustainability reporting and
assurance.

Understanding reporting and measurement
methodologies
The Selected Information needs to be read and understood together
with the Reporting Criteria, which HSBC is solely responsible
for selecting and applying. The absence of a significant body of
established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure
non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable,
measurement techniques. The nature, methods and precision
used to determine non-financial information can result in materially
different measurements, affecting comparability between entities
and over time. The Reporting Criteria used for the reporting
of the Selected Information are as at 31 December 2013
(www.hsbc.com/sus-assurance1).

Work done
Considering the risk of material misstatement of the Selected
Information we:

• made enquiries of HSBC’s management;
• evaluated the design of the key structures, systems, processes
and controls for managing, recording and reporting the Selected
Information;
• performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the
application of the Equator Principles based on information held at
corporate head offices and accessed the records, and discussed
with relevant staff 28 transactions to check that data had been
appropriately measured, evaluated, recorded, collated and
reported;
• performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the
total CO2 emissions information at corporate head offices and
accessed the records, and discussed with relevant staff of eight
reporting locations to check that data had been appropriately
measured, recorded, collated and reported; and
• assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Selected
Information.

HSBC’s responsibilities
The Directors of HSBC are responsible for:
• designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls over
information relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information
that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error;
• establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Selected
Information;
• measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on the
Reporting Criteria; and
• the content of the Sustainability Report 2013.

Our responsibilities
We are responsible for:
• planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited
assurance about whether the Selected Information is free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
• forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we
have performed and the evidence we have obtained; and
• reporting our conclusion to the Directors of HSBC.
This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for
the Board of Directors of HSBC as a body in accordance with the
agreement between us, to assist the Directors in reporting HSBC’s
sustainability performance and activities. We permit this report to
be disclosed in the Sustainability Report 2013 for the year ended
31 December 2013, to assist the Directors in responding to their
governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance
report in connection with the Selected Information. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the Board of Directors as a body and HSBC for
our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed
between us in writing.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants
London
9 May 2014
1 The maintenance and integrity of HSBC’s website is the responsibility of the
Directors; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these
matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that
may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria
when presented on HSBC’s website.

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report 2013
CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

35

Appendices (continued)

About this Report

The HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report is written
primarily for institutional investors, customers, nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) and others with a
particular professional interest in the Group’s approach to
sustainability. It focuses on the specific environmental and
social issues that contribute to the sustainability of HSBC,
and are of ongoing interest to our stakeholders.
The six reporting angles in this report were decided by
assessing feedback from business and risk colleagues
across HSBC and external stakeholders. This helped us
to understand which issues are material to HSBC.
We identify priority issues by listening to our key
stakeholders and assessing them in light of our strategy,
purpose and values. Specifically, we assess feedback and
queries globally from our customers, shareholders, regulators
and NGOs, as well as media commentary. We gather insight
from and engage with major investors, through investor
roadshows and by contributing to various indices and
surveys. We also gain feedback on our strategy from global
benchmarks and through calls with analysts. We review and
revise our priority issues throughout the year.

Reporting standards and assurance
We use a number of external standards and guidelines
in the development of this report. To guide our selection
of information to report, we have consulted the Global
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) reporting framework and
Financial Services Supplement. Our GRI table of contents can
be found online at www.hsbc.com/sustainabilityreport. We
draw on guidance from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for our
carbon reporting.
For the sixth consecutive year, we have appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to provide independent
assurance on selected information in our Sustainability
Report 2013 covering carbon emissions and our application
of the Equator Principles.
Their assurance is performed in accordance with the
internationally recognised standards ISAE3000 and
3410, against a clear and public set of criteria which can
be found online at www.hsbc.com/sus-assurance. The
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP assurance report is on
page 35.

Publications for other audiences, as well as case studies and
other material to supplement this report, are available on our
website at www.hsbc.com/sustainability.
This report supplements the HSBC Holdings plc Annual
Report and Accounts 2013 and Strategic Report 2013. The
Annual Report and Accounts covers HSBC’s full financial
performance and corporate governance policies and is
available online at www.hsbc.com. The Strategic Report
2013 is a summary of information in the Annual Report and
Accounts, and is also available at www.hsbc.com.
This Sustainability Report covers the financial year from
January to December 2013 (unless otherwise noted). In
some cases, information for early 2014 is also included to
give an up-to-date picture. Facts and figures refer to the
HSBC Group unless indicated otherwise.
We welcome feedback from readers. Contact details can be
found opposite.

36

HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability Report
2013
CorporateRegister.com

Limited 04-06-14

Contact us
Global Corporate Sustainability
HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Email: sustainability@hsbc.com
www.hsbc.com/sustainability
The HSBC Sustainability Report is published annually.
Our last report was published in May 2013.
Photography
Group Chairman, page 2: George Brooks
© Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2014
All rights reserved
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a
retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise,
without the prior written permission of HSBC Holdings plc.
Published by Global Corporate Sustainability,
HSBC Holdings plc, London
Designed by Black Sun Plc, London, and typeset by
Creative Conduct Limited, London
Printed by Pureprint Group Limited, Uckfield, East Sussex, UK,
on Revive 100 White Offset paper using vegetable oil-based
inks. Made in the UK (cover board) and Austria (text pages), the
paper comprises 100% de-inked post-consumer waste. Pulps
used are totally chlorine-free.
The FSC ® logo identifies products which contain wood from
well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of
the Forest Stewardship Council®.

Stock number 99337-1

CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

The view from HSBC Building, 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai

The view from HSBC Main Building, 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong SAR

The view from HSBC Group Head Office, 8 Canada Square, London

HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com

CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

CorporateRegister.com Limited 04-06-14

