2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Containing Our Efforts for Transparent Management, Social Responsibilities and Green Management

About This Report
KB Financial Group released its first sustainability reports as, KB Kookmin
Bank in 2010. The reporting scope has been expanded to incorporate operations at the group level since 2012. Through the publication of sustainability
reports every year, KB Financial Group strives for honest communication with
its stakeholders.

Reporting Period This report covers KB Financial Group’s business operations from January 1 to December 31, 2013. With regards to some operations, this report covers information collected up to June 2014.

Reporting Scope and Boundary This report covers the sustainability activities carried out by KB Financial Group’s eleven subsidiaries, which includes
all of its domestic locations. The quantitative data spanning over the past two
years were also included so that the results can be easily compared. The scope
will be specified should special attention to the data be required.

Reporting Standard The KB Financial Group’s 2013 Sustainability Report
was prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)’s new
G4 reporting guidelines released in May 2013 and it meets the requirements of
the 'Core' option. For this, a materiality test was conducted and the results are
seven chapters which cover the selected topics in detail.

Features of the Report In this report, the business operations of the respective subsidiaries and additional sustainability activities, other than the details
contained herein are separately presented. Through separate presentations,
the aim of the report is to evenly distribute the results of activities carried out
group-wide and also those of the activities of the company’s respective subsidiaries.

Report Assurance To ensure reliability, this report has received assurance
from an independent assurance provider. This independent assurance provider remains free of any relationship or interest with KB Financial Group.
See page 78 for the Independent Assurance Statement.

Additional Information Additional information on KB Financial Group
is available on the KB Financial Group website (http://www.kbfg.com),
the Annual Report, the Financial Supervisory Service ’s Data Analysis, the
Retrieval and Transfer System and the 20-F Annual Report Form (2012)
which are all submitted to the New York Stock Exchange.

2013 KB Financial Group
Sustainability Activity
Highlights

Established ‘KB Capital’

KB Financial Group Reaches ‘30 Million Customers’

On March 20, 2014, KB Capital officially became KB
Financial Group’s 11th subsidiary. With 20 operating
locations across the country, KB Capital is a first-rate
specialized credit financial company that specializes
in personal finance, corporate finance, and automotive finance. Through collaboration with the Group’s
other subsidiaries, the company is expected to provide impetus to the Group’s sustainable growth by
creating synergy.

KB Financial Group finally has reached the 30 million
customers target. This achievement made KB Financial
Group the ‘people’s financial institution’ as 60% of
the entire Korean population uses KB Financial Group
to perform transactions. KB Financial Group will continue to operate customer-centric business and fulfill
its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen by putting into practice the concept of ‘timely rainfall finance’
which is like rain that falls at the perfect time.

‘KB Star Banking’ Surpassed the 8 Million Users

Launching of the ‘KB Financial Organizational
Culture Reform Committee’

‘KB Star Banking’ is a leading smart financial product

of KB Financial Group. Our company became the first
to release such a product in Korea and subsequently
surpass the 8 million user mark. This further cements
its status as a frontrunner in the financial market.
In 2013, KB Star Banking 3.0, which is an updated
version of the product, was released to cater to customers’ needs in order to provide customer-centric
and personalized services. Efforts will continue to be
made to ensure the convenience of customer-centric
services and creative smart banking.

KB Financial Group launched the ‘KB Financial Organizational Culture Reform Committee’ in which outside experts participate in the Group’s management
innovation and reform of organizational culture.
The Reform Committee consists of nine people (four
outside experts and five members of KB Financial
Group’s management). It is responsible for assessing
group-wide problems and suggesting solutions to
them.

New Appointment of KB Financial Group ’ s
Management
In July, Young-Rok Lim was elected as the new
Chairman and CEO of KB Financial Group Inc. Lim
declared ‘Righteous Management Based on Fundamentals and Principles’ as the Group’s new precept.

Largest-scale Shift to Full-Time Positions in the
History of Korean Financial Industry
To resolve social problems associated with temporary contract positions and to increase productivity,
KB Kookmin Bank appointed about 4,200 contract
employees to full-time positions. This is the largest-scale shift ever to happen in the Korean financial industry. These employees will perform the
same duties as existing full-time employees and will
receive equal pay and promotional opportunities.

Created ‘KB Carbon Neutral Forests’
Since 2009, in order to reduce carbon emissions and
create green forests, KB Financial Group has run the
‘KB Carbon Neutral Forests’ program. In 2013, the
Group created a carbon-neutral forest in Songdo
International City, planting about 11,000 trees over
an area of the Incheon Free Economic Zone (1.3ha).
The program is expected to help reduce over 460
tons of carbon dioxide emissions each year.

Certified as a Family-Friendly Company by the
Ministry of Gender Equality and Family
KB Life Insurance has always pursued a family-friendly
corporate culture. Our company commits itself to creating a fun workplace. Due to its positive culture, in
2013, the company earned ‘family-friendly company
certification’ from the Ministry of Gender Equality and
Family. By ensuring work-life balance, our company
will have an increase in employee satisfaction and
productivity while focusing on improving the capabilities of the individual employee.

Inclusion in the Dow JonesSustainability Index (DJSI) Asia Paciﬁc for Five Consecutive Years
For five consecutive years, KB Financial Group was included as a component in the DJSI Asia Pacific Index
which is a global standard appraising sustainability of global companies. Instead of being content with its status quo, KB Financial Group will continuously work hard to increase its corporate value by pursuing world-class
results in the economic, social and environmental aspects.
Ranked 1st in the National
Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI)
for eight consecutive years

Ranked 1st in the Korean
Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI)
for seven consecutive years

Ranked 1st in the NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index)
Both KB Kookmin Bank and KB Kookmin Card have moved up to first place in the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) released by the Korea Productivity Center, and also in the Korean Customer Satisfaction Index
(KCSI) released by Korea Management Association Consultants. The two companies will continue to provide
accessible customer-centric services and products.

Contents
Sustainability Overview
Sustainability Activity Highlights

2013 KB Financial Group
Sustainability Report
Containing Our Efforts for Transparent Management,
Social Responsibilities and Green Management

A Message from the CEO

02

Group Profile

04

Corporate Governance

06

Sustainable Management

08

Materiality Test

10

Material Report Content
Customer Information Protection

14

Ethical Management Activities

18

Risk Management Activities

23

Increasing Brand Value

28

Social Contribution through Finance

32

Customer Satisfaction Management

37

Social Contribution Activities

42

Sustainability Performance of our Subsidiaries
KB Kookmin Bank

50

KB Kookmin Card

54

KB Investment & Securities

56

KB Life Insurance

58

KB Asset Management

60

KB Capital

62

KB Savings Bank

64

KB Real Estate Trust

66

KB Investment

68

KB Credit Information

70

KB Data System

72

Appendix
KB Financial Group’s
Sustainability Activities Data

75

Assurance Report

78

GRI G4 Content Index

80

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

A Message from the CEO

“Management Based on the Fundamentals and Principles.”
This is the main goal that KB Financial Group will work for in order to
make a fresh start as a solid and reliable financial group.

I would like to express my deepest and most sincere gratitude to our customers and shareholders for supporting KB Financial Group. It is with
great pleasure that I am able to extend my greetings through the publication of the Group’s third sustainability report to everyone.
First of all, I would like to sincerely apologize for the series of the financial incidents and a major breach of credit card data that have happened
recently. In order to prevent any such incidents from happening again, we will use our most best efforts to become a financial group that is trusted
by its customers and shareholders alike. This will be accomplished by overhauling the internal controls system and fortifying the information
protection management system.

2

3

Along with the slowdown of the entire financial market last year, KB Financial Group also had a tough year as there was a decline in profitability
due to the low interest rate. The deterioration in financial soundness was caused by the corporate restructuring, and a series of financial incidents.
However, despite these tough times, all employees at KB Financial Group are completely committed to overcome any crisis that may occur in the
future. KB Financial Group has developed new tactics and methods on securing the satisfaction of its customers and shareholders.
As KB Kookmin Bank was selected as the custodian bank for the National Housing Fund and National Pension Service, the company has
strengthened its competitive advantage in the institutional clients market. KB Kookmin Card has also launched the K-Motion mobile card service to carve out a dominant presence in the future payment market. KB Investment & Securities is also maintaining its leading position in the
Debt Capital Market (DCM) and the Equity Capital Market (ECM) fields, while KB Life Insurance is preparing for a new start by increasing the
sales of endowment policy products. KB Asset Management has worked hard to strengthen its key capabilities, such as leading the long-term
funds market despite the worsening financial conditions.
In particular, KB Financial Group’s efforts to expand into a new business portfolio have prepared the Group for another leap forward. In March of
this year, the Group has successfully launched KB Capital, and in June, has concluded an acquisition agreement regarding LIG Insurance.
Due to these activities, the Group reported KRW 292 trillion in total assets, an increase by 6,087.1 billion from the previous year’s figure. The
Group also recorded that there was KRW 1,263.7 billion in net income, which has surpassed enormous 30-million customer mark, sealing its
standing as a leading financial group in South Korea.
Even though the world economy is showing signs of recovery led by developed countries, there are still continued uncertainties, and a fast recovery is still unlikely to happen for the domestic economy. Under such circumstances, KB Financial Group will focus on the following pledges to
make a fresh start as a solid and reliable financial group, “Management Based on the Fundamentals and Principles”:

First, we will consolidate our capabilities in our strongest areas and build a basis for the Group’s growth while remaining faithful to the fundamentals. We will solidify our capabilities in the retail finance areas, improve the quality of corporate finances, and
enhance a competitive edge and profitability in each sector.
Secondly, we will reinforce proactive risk management. We will re-double our efforts to proactively manage assets that are potentially at risk and manage risks of its overseas offices.
Thirdly, we will increase productivity and efficiency and prepare to creatively face growing challenges and actively develop further. We
will overhaul our programs and processes that centers on customers and plants and will fundamentally improve our cost structures.
Lastly, we will become a financial group trusted by customers, markets, and people. Just like the saying “Timely Rainfall,” which
means rain coming with perfect timing, we will provide appropriate services when customers need them. We will become a company that actively gives back to local communities in response to people’s support and trust.
For KB Financial Group to achieve sustainable growth and contribute to creating new and continued value for customers and people, your continued support is greatly appreciated.
Thank you.

Young-Rok Lim
Chairman & CEO KB Financial Group Inc.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Group Profile
About KB Financial Group
At the end of December 2013, with total assets of KRW 292 trillion, KB Financial Group is Korea’s leading financial institution as it has the largest customer base and the most extensive branch network in the country. KB Financial Group has domestic subsidiaries - KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card,
KB Investment & Securities, KB Life Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Savings Bank, KB Real Estate Trust, KB Investment, KB Credit Information, and
KB Data System. It also has overseas subsidiaries, Kookmin Bank Hong Kong Ltd. (Hong Kong), Kookmin Bank International Ltd. (UK), Kookmin Bank
Cambodia PLC (Cambodia) and Kookmin Bank China Ltd. (China). In March 2014, KB Capital became the Group’s 11th domestic subsidiary.

64

503

Seoul
Incheon
Gyeonggi-do

Gangwon-do

313

Chungcheongbuk-do
Sejong

Gyeongsangbuk-do

Daejeon

Company Name

KB Financial Group

Chairman & CEO

Young-Rok Lim

Headquarters

84, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul (Euljiro 2-ga)

Number of
Employees

24,809 (including all subsidiaries, temporary
contracts)

Total Assets

KRW 291,838,155 million

Total Revenue

KRW 2,026,992 million

Net Income

KRW 1,263,705 million

54

Daegu

Chungcheongnam-do

KB Financial Group at a Glance

Ulsan

Jeollabuk-do

88

Busan
Gyeongsangnam-do

Gwangju
Jeollanam-do

Jeju

Information on Domestic Branches

Number of Branches 1,336 (domestic: 1,323, overseas: 13)
Number of Customers 30,019,372
Major
Shareholders and
Share Ratios

National Pension Service (9.96%)
The Bank of New York Mellon (8.37%)
Employee Stock Ownership Association (0.75%)

Website

http://www.kbfg.com

Seoul
Incheon
Gyeonggi-do

503
64
313

Daejeon

45

Daegu

Jeollabuk-do

26

Ulsan

17

Gwangju

31

Gyeongsangnam-do

40
88

Chungcheongbuk-do

25

Jeollanam-do

20

Busan

Sejong

02

Gangwon-do

17

Jeju

Gyeongsangbuk-do

33

Chungcheongnam-do 34

*As of December 31, 2013

KB Financial Group’s Mid and Long-term Goals
Global Financial Group Leading the Asian Financial Industry

STEP 1 2014~2016
Securing Unparalleled Competitive
Advantages for Key Businesses
Reinforcement of
Growth Basis

Enhancement of Sales and
Production Capabilities

Risk Management
Reinforcement

Strengthening Future
Growth Engines

STEP 2 2017~2019

STEP 3 2020~2022

Recovering Leadership in the
Domestic Financial Market

Cementing its Position in the
Asian Financial Market

Revenue Growth through Asset Growth and Improvement of Portfolio

54

8

4

5

KB Financial Group was established on September 29, 2008 in accordance with a company-wide mid and long term development strategy to better deal
with change in the financial market. By implementing the strategies built in its infrastructure, such as solidification of the basis for group growth, reinforcement of capabilities for a comprehensive finance system and the promotion of fields for future growth, the Group has contributed to the growth of
the Korean financial industry.
To become a financial institution leading the Asian financial market, KB Financial Group set to achieve management goals in separate stages. First, by

2016, the Group will have cemented its position in the financial industry. With its firm position, our company will then be able to pursue business stability by securing unparalleled competitive advantages for its key businesses. Through a business environment analysis, the Group developed and began
to implement fifteen tasks under four strategic directions which are: reinforcement of the solid basis for growth, reinforcement of risk management,
enhancement of sales and production capabilities and strengthening future growth engines. Also, before 2019, the Group will be playing the leading role
in the domestic financial market. By 2022, the Group will have become a leader in the Asian financial industry.

London

Kiev
Beijing

Mumbai

New York

Tokyo
Osaka

Hong Kong
Hanoi

Yangon
Phnum Penh
Ho Chi Minh

Global Network
Auckland

Subsidiaries of KB Financial Group
KB Financial Group has subsidiaries in the banking business (KB Kookmin Bank), credit card business (KB Kookmin Card), financial investment business (KB Investment & Securities, KB Asset Management, KB Real Estate Trust, and KB Investment), insurance business (KB Life Insurance), and other businesses (KB Capital, KB
Savings Bank, KB Credit Information, and KB Data System). It aims to strengthen its global competitiveness through synergy among its subsidiaries.
To enhance its non-banking operations and to contribute to the stabilization of finance for working-class people, on September 2, 2013, the Group acquired
Yehansol Savings Bank which has become a subsidiary. It merged with KB Savings Bank on January 13, 2014. On March 20, 2014, the Group acquired Woori
Financial and renamed it to KB Capital to make it its 11th subsidiary.

KB Financial Group Inc.

(Subsidiary/Stake)

KB Kookmin
Bank

KB Kookmin
Card

KB Investment &
Securities

KB Life
Insurance

KB Asset
Management

KB Capital

KB Savings
Bank

KB Real
Estate Trust

KB Investment

KB Credit
Information

KB Data
System

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

52.02%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

*For more information on products and services of each subsidiary, please visit the website of each subsidiary, or refer to business report of KB Financial Group.

*As of March 31, 2014

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Corporate Governance
Operation of the Board of Directors
In 2013, through strenuous board activities, the Board of Directors of KB Financial Group strove to increase the values of the company and its shareholders. As the
company’s top decision maker, the Board is committed to its responsibilities, such as making strategic decisions concerning mergers and acquisitions (M&A) on
behalf of the company, and other mid and long-term management plans. Throughout the year, there were 20 board meetings and 49 committee meetings, with
a high average attendance of 96.9%. In May 2013, in particular, the Chairman Nominating Committee met to discuss in detail the nomination of Chairman and
CEO candidates. The Non-Executive Director Nominating Committee, which was organized in December, made every effort to nominate non-executive director
candidates who possess sufficient experience and ability and can also provide practical assistance to KB Financial Group. In 2014, KB Financial Group’s Board of
Directors will continue its efforts to create a healthy and transparent environment for management.

2013 Board of Directors and Committee Meetings and Average Attendance
No. of Meetings Held

No. of Resolutions Made

(unit: case)

(unit: case)

20
49

Board

Attendance of
Non-Executive
Directors

36
32

(unit: %)

94.8

Committees

98.3

Board of Directors Composition
Kyung-Jae Lee

Young-Rok Lim

Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Board Steering
Committee, Member of the Audit Committee,
Member of the Risk Management Committee

Member of the Board Steering Committee, Member of the
Management Strategy Committee

CEO of the Industrial Bank of Korea (Former)

Chairman and CEO of KB Financial Group (Present)

Young-Jin Kim

Kun-Ho Hwang

Chairman of the Audit Committee, Member of the Board Steering
Committee, Member of the Risk Management Committee

Chairman of the Risk Management Committee, Member of the
Board Steering Committee, Member of the Management Strategy
Committee

Professor of Finance at the College of Business
Administration, Seoul National University (Present)

Chairman of the Korea Financial Investment Association
(KOFIA) (Former)

Jong-Cheon Lee

Jae-Ho Cho

Chairman of Evaluation & Compensation Committee, Member of
the Board Steering Committee, Member of the Audit Committee

Member of the Risk Management Committee, Member of the
Evaluation & Compensation Committee

Professor at the College of Business and Economics at
Soongsil University (Present)

Professor at the College of Business Administration,
Seoul National University (Present)

Seung-Hee Koh

Young-Kwa Kim

Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Management
Strategy Committee, Member of the Evaluation & Compensation
Committee

Chairman of the Management Strategy Committee, Member of
the Board Steering Committee, Member of the Evaluation &
Compensation Committee

Accounting Professor at Sookmyung Women’s University
(Present)

President and CEO of Korea Securities Finance Corporation
(KSFC) (Former)

Myung-Jig Kim

Sung-Hwan Shin

Member of the Risk Management Committee, Member of the
Evaluation & Compensation Committee

Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Management
Strategy Committee

Dean of Economics and Finance at Hanyang University
(Present)

Business Adminstration Professor at Hongik University
(Present)

*All non-executive directors of KB Financial Group maintain independence.
*The Board of Directors is comprised entirely of non-executive directors excluding Chairman and CEO Young-Rok Lim (Executive Director)

*As of March 27, 2014

6

7

Nomination Criteria for Non-Executive Directors
KB Financial Group’s non-executive directors are widely respected and trusted experts. These individuals possess extensive knowledge, expertise and
experience in related fields such as economics, management, accounting and finance. The Non-Executive Director Nominating Committee nominates
non-executive directors based on independence and expertise. This is all done in accordance with applicable laws like the Financial Holding Companies
Act. The final decision whether or not to elect directors is made at the shareholders’ meeting.

Board of Directors Activities and Performance

Key
Resolutions

Board
Competency
Development and
Communication
Activities

Evaluation
by Korea
Corporate
Governance
Service

The Board was briefed on business results at each quarterly board meeting and a number of matters necessary for the operation of
the group were discussed. In July, the Board elected a Chairman and CEO, and at a temporary board meeting in December, it confirmed the 2014 - 2016 business plans and the budget for 2014. Additionally, the Board frequently held temporary board meetings
to discuss mergers and acquisitions, in order to proactively respond to changing market conditions and key management issues.

In 2013, KB Financial Group provided a total of six training sessions for non-executive directors. To help new non-executive directors
better understand KB Financial Group, an annual orientation meeting is held for new non-executive directors. In addition, for the Board
to make more reasonable decisions, the Group regularly provides its business information which includes the status of business operations and investor trends. Furthermore, the Group encourages open communication between non-executive directors and executives,
including the CEO by holding board workshops during which they can freely discuss the Group’s mid and long-term strategies.

KB Financial Group has earned an A+, the highest grade, on Korea Corporate Governance Service’s
2013 ESG assessment across all divisions (economic, social, and environmental performance).
2 0 13

Performance Evaluation, Remuneration and Disclosure Methods
Method for Performance Evaluation

At the end of the year, under the supervision of the Board Steering Committee, the Board and its committees are evaluated.
The evaluation of the Board is divided into four areas ‘board composition and efficiency’, ‘board functions and roles’, ‘board
responsibilities’ and ‘shareholder rights protection and shareholder relationships’. As for non-executive directors, self-evaluation, evaluation by board members and evaluation by employees are conducted. Among the evaluation indicators are interest and engagement in the board, experience and knowledge and director’s duties and personality.

Method for Determining
Remuneration

The maximum compensation limit for directors is determined at a general shareholders’ meeting. Long-term incentives for
executive directors are paid in the form of restricted stock over a three-year period after retirement. The purpose is to reflect
the company’s ability to maintain and improve long-term performance.

Method for Disclosures

Under the board rules, the Chairman of the Board reports board evaluation results at an annual shareholders’ meeting.
Compensation for directors is disclosed in the annual business report.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Sustainable Management
KB Financial Group’s Sustainability Management Structure
All employees at KB Financial Group work closely together to help the Group. Our goal is to become a global financial group that leads the Asian financial industry. To this end, the Group has three specific sustainability management goals which are: being wise, being smart and being sustainable. Furthermore, to meet the expectations of various stakeholders and fulfill its responsibilities as a member of the community, the Group governs all business
operations according to detailed action plans.

Vision

Global Financial Group Leading the Asian Financial Industry

Asia Top 10, Global Top 50
Slogan
Together for Your Life

Wise

Smart

Sustainable

Increase Customer Value
Challenge, Change and Innovation

Secure Future Growth Engines
Gain Management Efficiency

Increase Social Responsibilities
Responsibilities as a Corporate Citizen

Direction

Scope

Basic
Philosophy

Customer

Product & Service

We consider customer satisfaction our foremost priority
and strive to protect customers by providing them with
the right services and information

We fulfill our social responsibilities with products and
services that contribute to
green growth and the public
good while also creating
new value.

Operations

HR

(Ethics & Environment)

(Human Resources)

We endeavor to minimize
social and environmental
risks through green management. and also to increase
transparency and ethics
through ethical management

We nurture financial specialists by providing continuous educational and career
developmental opportunities
while trying to build a robust
organizational culture and
labor-management relations

2013 Key Outcomes of Sustainability Management

Community
As a financial group of the
people, we do our best to
provide donations, participate in voluntary work and
social services for the public
good

*As of December 31, 2013

2011

2012

2013

1st / 1st

1st / 1st

1st / 1st

Classification

Item

Unit

Customers1)

Customer satisfaction indexes (NCSI, KCSI) (Bank, Card)

Ranking

Pre-deliberation on product development

No.

309

314

332

Information disclosures and pre-deliberation on advertisements No.

3,529

3,056

5,058

Yearly amount of KB Smile Microcredit Bank loans (Bank)

KRW 100 million

280

165

123

Green loans (Bank)

KRW 100 million

14,548

14,262

8,932

KB Hidden Star 500 support for outstanding small and
medium enterprises (Bank)

KRW 100 million

11,837

14,785

19,035

Ratio of full-time employees (Group)

%

73.0

74.8

79.9

Total employee training hours (Group)

Hour

4,066,712

3,756,439

2,875,868

Ratio of employee grievances resolved (Group)

No. of incidents resolved /
No. of incidents reported

48 / 48

54 / 54

68 / 68

Social contribution activities (Group)

Hours per person

5.9

13.8

13.6

Amount of social contribution expenses (Group)

KRW 100 million

900

922

647

Number of recipients of economic and financial education
(Group) – including visiting and invitational education

person

21,357

44,952

88,534

Environmental

Greenhouse gas emissions

tCO2e

131,287

129,643

132,746

Management

Amount of paper used (Group)

Box

113,135

113,280

110,151

Products &
Services

Employees

Community

2)

1) Scope of data collected: KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card, KB Savings Bank, KB Asset Management
2) Scope of data collected: 2011 - KB Asset Management, KB Card, KB Savings Bank excluded / 2012 - KB Asset Management excluded / 2013 - KB Capital excluded

8

9

Amounts of Value Distribution
KB Financial Group is sharing value with its stakeholders within the economic-ecosystem.

Customers

Shareholders and
Investors

Employees

Local Communities

Business Partners

Government and
Supervisory Organizations

Savings Account
Interest Rates

Interest and Dividends

Pay and Benefits, etc.

Contributions

Procurement
and Services

Income Taxes

4,279,153

1,480,100

2,346,600

64,700

388,218

551,585

(Unit: KRW million)

Stakeholder Engagement
KB Financial Group endeavors to continuously communicate with its stakeholders. Since inauguration, the Chairman and CEO Young-Rok Lim, in particular, has stressed communication between external and internal stakeholders, including shareholders, customers and employees. He states that this
is a “requirement to maintain the company’s sustainable growth in this rapidly changing business environment.” He is committed to creating a variety
of communication channels. Through ‘KB Story’, the first social blog ever owned by a financial institution in Korea, the Group provides unique content
for communication and engagement under the theme, 'The People’s Hopes and Dreams’. Additionally, with the ‘Conversation with the CEO’ program
and regular employee meetings, the Group has strengthened direct communication with employees. .Such activities serve to incorporate stakeholders’
thoughts and feedback into the Group’s business operations and also to help it become a company that is able to work with people.
KB Financial Group is dedicated to providing services that customers need so that there is maximum economic value for shareholders and investors. In
addition, the Group pursues win-win growth with suppliers through ethical management. The group strongly supports the security and growth of local
communities through continuous socially contributive activities. With this business model in which the company can share growth with its stakeholders,
the Group will become a global financial group that is beyond the Asian financial industry.

Stakeholder Communication Channels
KB Employees, Branch Offices,
Advertisements and Press Releases,
KB Story, Website, Call Center, Customer
Service Center, Product Pamphlets,
the Tribunal System, Customer Panels
IR Road Shows,
IR Presentations, General
Shareholders’ Meetings,
Business Reports

Business Partner
Satisfaction Survey

Customers

Shareholders and
Investors

Business Partners

Employees

Labor-Management Council,
Meetings with Employees,
Conversation with the CEO,
Webzine

Government and
Supervisory Agencies

Local Communities

Public Hearings,
Consultative Bodies,
Symposiums

Meetings with Local
Communities,
Social Contribution Activities

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Materiality Test
Materiality Test
In accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiatives) G4 Guidelines released in 2013, KB Financial Group conducted a materiality test to identify
and report key issues regarding the company’s sustainability management. This materiality test process consists of identifying topics, stakeholder survey,
results analysis and prioritization. The final verification was conducted by TF members and chief officers of the subsidiaries.
This report concentrates on 12 high-priority issues among all identified issues.

Benchmarking of Leading Companies
Analysis of Global Standards
Media Research

Identifying
Issues

Stakeholder
Survey

Defining
44 Identified Issues

Number of people
surveyed: 2,100

Analysis
of Survey
Results

Deﬁning
Reporting
Issues

Review of Internal Data

Identifying Issues

Prioritizing Issues
Final 20 issues

Benchmarking of Leading Companies | Benchmarking was conducted by selecting 10 companies included in the DJSI
World Banks sector. Through benchmarking, the Group was able to identify areas and issues that global financial companies
consider important and has addressed those issues.

Analysis of Global Standards | Through analysis of the GRI Reporting Guidelines and ISO26000, the Group was able to
identify matters in the report related to sustainability that are required within the company. The report also reflects the latest
trends based on analysis of the 2014 DJSI questionnaire.

Media Research | Through analyzing articles completed by major domestic media outlets that relate to KB Financial Group
and its subsidiaries published in 2013, the Group was able to investigate external perspectives and demands for KB Financial Group.

Review of Internal Data | Instead of external perspectives, the Group reviewed internal communication data, public relations data and internal reports to identify internal sustainability issues for KB Financial Group.

Stakeholder
Survey

For KB Financial Group’s materiality test, a total of 2,100 stakeholders from six groups including customers, investors and
communities were surveyed. The survey covered 44 issues that were identified based on: Significance 1) and Impact 2) as
defined by the GRI G4. The number of stakeholders who responded to the survey totalled 905.
1) Significance: Significance of economic, social and environmental impacts
2) Impact: Impacts on stakeholder evaluations and decisions

Deﬁning
Reporting Issues

Those 44 identified issues were narrowed down to twenty through a primary survey and were then prioritized through a
secondary survey. This report specifically describes twelve key issues based on their significance and the amount of content
reported.

10

11

High

Materiality Issue Map

3
2
8

15

4
5

Signiﬁcance

9

10
12

14

16

18

17

Low

20

6

11
13

19

7

1

Impact

Low

1 Customer Information Protection

High

8 Implementing Customer Satisfaction Activities

15 Employees’ Human Rights Protection

2 Increasing Brand Value

9 Implementing Strategic Social Contribution Activities

16 Stakeholders’ Engagement in Management

3 Reputation Management

10 Expanding Support for Small and Medium Enterprises

4 Ensuring Integrity and Transparency
of the Board of Directors

11 Improving Financial Accessibility

17 Extending Financial Services to Socially
Disadvantaged Groups

5 Financial Consumer Protection Activities
6 Ethical Management Activities
7 Financial Risk Management

12 Revitalizing Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)
13 Improving Employee Productivity
14 Supporting the Sustainability Management of
Business Partners

18 Social/Environmental Impacts Assessment of
Products and Services
19 Improving Environmental Problems through
Products and Services
20 Environmental Impact Mitigation Activities

Relationship between Reporting Issues and GRI G4
Once identified through the materiality test, the twelve key issues were categorized and covered in seven chapters of this report.
The relationship between the contents of each issue and GRI G4 Aspect is as follows:

Materiality Test 12 Key Issues
Customer Information Protection
Increasing Brand Value
Reputation Management
Ensuring Integrity and Transparency of the
Board of Directors
Financial Consumer Protection Activities
Improving Financial Accessibility
Implementing Customer Satisfaction Activities
Ethical Management Activities
Financial Risk Management

Major Reporting Details

Related GRI G4 Aspect

Creating a Master Plan to Strengthen Information
Security, Raising Employee Awareness

Customer Privacy

Increasing Brand Value,
Strategic Sports Marketing

Marketing Communication

Operation and Activities of the Board of Directors

Governance*

Operating a Financial Incident Prevention System,
Strengthening a Customer-Centric Management System

Product and Service Labeling,
Local Communities

Operating the Compliance Program,
Ethics Training for Employees
Strengthening Asset Soundness,
Upgrading the Risk Management System
Group’s Key Social Contribution Projects,
Social Contribution Implementation System

Implementing Strategic
Social Contribution Activities
Expanding Support for Small and Medium Enterprises Financial Support for Low-Income Groups,
Revitalizing Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)
socially Responsible Investment

Anti-Corruption, Compliance, Ethics and Integrity*
Economic Performance
Local Communities
Product Portfolio
*General Standard Disclosure

Reporting Issues

01
Customer Information
Protection
KB Financial Group will become a reliable and trusted partner for customers
and make them feel more secure.

page 14

02
Ethical Management
Activities
As a financial institution, KB
Financial Group takes great pride
in its own fair and transparent
management. page 18

07
Social Contribution
Activities
KB Financial Group pursues
a delightful relationship with
society and is paving the way
for a hopeful future through
love and sharing page 42

04
Increasing Brand
Value
KB Financial Group establishes
its brand identity to get closer to
customers and thus becoming a
global financial brand. page 28

06
Customer Satisfaction
Management

03
Risk Management
Activities
KB Financial Group deals with
uncertain business environments
by proactively responding to
various crises. page 23

KB Financial Group pursues
customer satisfaction in all business
operations and works hard to
provide genuine communication
and services to each customer.

05

page 37

Social Contribution
through Finance
KB Financial Group fulfills its
social responsibilities as a financial
company to build a sustainable
society.

page 32

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

01
Customer
Information
Protection
KB’s Efforts to
Protect Customer
Information

Customer Data Breach Incidents
In January 2014, information of approximately 53 million KB Kookmin Bank and Kookmin
Card customers was breached. Following the incident, KB Kookmin Bank and KB Kookmin
Card notified their customers of relevant details through respective websites, e-mails and
text messages, and diligently reassured customers that further damage would be prevented
by offering free personal data loss checking and credit card billing services. Also, to stop
further damage caused by the leaks, the Group set up a close collaboration system to work
with financial authorities and other financial companies.
Scope of this Issue KB Financial Group’s efforts to protect customer information are targeted at its
internal operation which runs a computer system and to its partners who implement development and
maintenance.

Key Risks and Opportunities
The financial industry is built upon credit and trust. The aforementioned incident reminded
KB Financial Group that a financial institution cannot exist without trust. All employees take
this lesson seriously and aim to prevent any similar incident.

Our Approach to Information Protection
Securing customer data management is vital to the existence of a company. KB Financial
Group will improve its process and system and raise employee awareness through training
in order to protect customer information. We will perform thorough inspection on external
service companies.

Details and Outcomes
Tightening
Internal Control
Process

Overhauling and strengthening related organizations
Inspecting channels to distribute customer information
• Strengthening control of communication and computer
equipment

Raising
Employees’
Awareness

Creating a specialized security unit within the holding company
Making it mandatory to report security check results to the CEO
• Conducting mock-up security training and unscheduled /
theme-based checks

•

•

•

•

Applying the electronic document encryption (DRM)
solution
• Adopting cloud computing
• Encrypting internet database

•

Employee training related to information protection
(online and group training sessions)

•

•

Investing in
Security Systems

Plans and Goals

•

•
•

Creating a cloud computing environment at all subsidiaries
Setting up an early alert system regarding data leakage risks
Adopting solutions that detect and block unauthorized access to
systems

Bettering information protection training by expanding scope to
outsourced personnel

14

Occurrence of Data
Breach Incidents

15

Accident Overview
In January 2014, several credit card companies including KB Kookmin Card have experienced mass
data breach incidents. An investigation concluded that an employee working at a system development
contractor took advantage of the security software vulnerabilities and leaked customers’ personal
information. Approximately 53 million client data were leaked.

KB’s Response
Since the incident, KB Kookmin Card has operated the personal data loss checking service on its website
and provided a free mobile transaction alert system. The company also runs its Data Loss Prevention
Center (1899-2900) which is open twenty-four hours a day.

Group Information
Security Master Plan

In the aftermath of the data breach, KB Financial Group has extended its approach to accident response
to all its subsidiaries. The Group is currently developing a ‘Group Information Security Master Plan’ to
prepare fundamental measures for information security at the group level.

1

Setting up a
Specialized
Security Unit

2

3

Building a Strong
Security System

Strengthening
Internal Controls

4

Monitoring
Distribution of
Information

Setting Up a Specialized Security Unit
KB Financial Group runs an independent security unit at KB Data System to manage and monitor its
overall information. The specialized unit will perform vulnerability checks and security consulting on the
security programs of the overall Group.

Building a Strong Security System
By providing all its subsidiaries with a cloud PC environment, the Group aims to block hacking /
exportation of information and to adopt database encryption thereby removing any possibility of
information breach. Additionally, the Group will adopt the Information Security Vulnerability Detection
System (ISVDS) to prevent data breaches and perform real-time monitoring of suspicious activities.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Strengthening Internal Controls
KB Financial Group not only intensified the internal inspection process, but also made it mandatory to report
inspection results to the CEO. The Group organized a task force for random or theme inspections, and plans
to create an information protection department in charge of protecting customer information. The group also
reinforced its information security training for employees and outsourced personnel in order to strengthen the
internal control process which includes strict access control and prohibits outsourced personnel from working
unaccompanied.

Monitoring Distribution of Information
KB Financial Group monitors the customer information distribution channels of all its subsidiaries to
ensure the safety of data management. It will also promptly resolve any potential problems. Moreover,
the Group has tightened regulations related to the disclosure of customer data between subsidiaries.

Reorganization and Strengthening of Monitoring Activities

Information Protection
Activities at Subsidiaries

In February 2014, KB Kookmin Bank created an information security team and reinforced its inspection
system. The processes of the system check whether required security software is installed on PCs, whether
the PC contains customer data, whether it is appropriate to export customer data and whether it is
appropriate to decode customer data files.
Furthermore, KB Kookmin Bank implemented comprehensive management to strengthen the internal
control process and customer information security, ranging from the generation to the collection of accounts
accessing the system. Moreover, the company reinforced on-site inspection on the information management
status of commissioned companies.
KB Kookmin Bank formed an independent department of information protection and created three teams
within it. In addition, the company increased the number of full-time employees from 13 to 22. These
employees are in charge of overall operation of information security, policy establishment, and assurance.
Meanwhile, KB Capital organized 11 departments and 22 taskforces to fundamentally prevent data
breaches through strict security and also built a solid monitoring system. Through the organization, the
company identified improvement tasks and established an implementation strategy in relation to ‘Guidelines
to Prevent Risk of Information Breach’ and ‘Financial Company Plans to Prevent Recurrence of Customer
Information Breach’.

KB Kookmin Card’s
2014 IT System
Investment Plan

Enhancing System Conﬁguration
KB Kookmin Bank and KB Investment & Securities restrict access to dangerous websites. KB Kookmin Bank,

(unit: KRW 100 million)

in particular, separated its intranet network from Internet networks to eliminate hacking threats including
external attacks with malicious code.

Total KRW

24.4 billion

Cloud

KB Kookmin Card completed the transition of the IT development working environment to a cloud system,
161

SAS

23

Communication Infrastructure

60

and adopted a one-time password generator (OTP) and fingerprint authentication to fortify its security
system. The company will also adopt ’Zero PCs’, a monitor-only computer system without any storage device.
Additionally, the company will examine and introduce a variety of technologies and systems to enhance
information protection, including a system for recording important task details (e.g. customer data inquiry)
and a real-time security system monitoring system.

16

17

Moreover, each subsidiary has adopted DRM (Digital Right Management), real-time detection solutions for
data modulation/hacking as well as database encryption technologies based on analysis of their security
systems.

Improving Employee Awareness of Information Protection
All subsidiaries of KB Financial Group provide employees with information protection to comply with
Electronic Finance Supervisory Regulations. Furthermore, we intend to apply information security to daily work
by invigorating employee education and awareness.

KB ’ s Information Protection Day l All subsidiaries of KB Financial Group have designated an
‘Information Protection Day’ every month, and conduct security checks and education. If any error is

discovered, solutions are swiftly carried out.

Systematizing Information Protection Activities l KB Kookmin Bank distributes the Personal
Information Protection Policy for all employees to reflect the policy in their work process. KB Credit
Information, meanwhile, strictly applies the applicable rules to performance evaluations of employees
aiming for zero security accidents.

Expanding Information Protection Training l All subsidiaries of KB Financial Group have expanded
privacy awareness training to outsourced personnel as well as their employees. Through the same level
of training and conscience-raising activities as those for employees, the Group has raised awareness of
the risks of data breaches.
KB Kookmin Card’s Privacy Training
Training Description

Date

Eligibility

Online training on information
protection

2013.07.01~07.31 All employees
2013.12.04~12.20

Information protection training 2013.10.25~10.30 Group training - Security officers
for all employees
Dissemination training - All employees

No. of Attendees

1,248
1,265

Strengthening the Information Protection Process
KB Kookmin Bank minimized its collection of personal information as a preventative measure against the
abuse of personal information at work. It also systematized a comprehensive process which includes use,
provision, storing, and destruction. The company will create a system for effective management during the
second half of the year. Furthermore, all export of data which uses prints, portable hard-drives and email
must all receive multi-step approval from the relevant department or the information protection department.
In order to access any information database, employees must go through a complex process of verification
which includes providing a security token or finger print mouse. For outsourced personnel, the company
strengthens control of access to systems by restricting the import of external computer equipment and
installing X-ray search tools.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

02
Ethical
Management
Activities
Ethical Management
Faithful to
Fundamentals and
Principles

What Is KB’s View on Ethical Management?
Business ethics is not about making decision based solely on economic principles, but
is a value-oriented concept that compels the company to meet social demands and
expectations to further the mutual interests of the company and its major stakeholders
such as: shareholders, customers, employees and local communities. The improved image
of a company in the financial industry creates a firm asset value, becomes the basis for
competitiveness and further influences company profit.
Scope of this Issue KB Financial Group ’ s codes of ethics are applicable to all employees of its
subsidiaries. In addition, when entering into agreements with business partners, the Group works hard to
root out corruption by implementing the ‘Ethical Contract Program’. As for primary business partners, the
Group particularly demands that they have the same level of compliance with the codes of ethics as KB
Financial Group.

Key Risks and Opportunities 
Ethical management and internal control are especially important in financial business
which includes frequent transactions of money and credit. The implementation of ethical
management activities will help establish a healthy culture of internal control as part of
corporate culture, instead of merely being a law or a program, which will increase corporate
value and reduce operational risks. On the other hand, neglecting ethical management will
lead to the company losing the trust of customers, the shrinking of financial services and
even negative effects across the economy.

Our Approach to Ethical Management
KB Financial Group has been committed to implementing transparent and reasonable
ethical management based on fundamentals and principles; however, due to the
unfortunate incidents in 2013, KB Financial Group received a reprimand and request from a
supervisory authority to make improvements to its internal control process.
The Group will overhaul and reorganize its ethical management and strive to become a
company trusted by customers, markets and the public.

Details and Outcomes
Building an
Effective Internal
Control Process

Creating operating regulations for internal transactions
within the Group

•

•

•

•

Reinforcing
Internal Controll

•

•

Submitting regular reports on monitoring of compliance
at respective subsidiaries

Plans and Goals
•
•

•

Operating compliance programs at respective subsidiaries
Building a legal support and pre-deliberation/
assessment system
Regular monitoring of the status of ethical management,
including improper sales
Implementing training for employees to raise their
awareness of ethical management

•
•
•

Strengthening control of the compliance checklist
Reinforcing monitoring activities, including reporting
the status of internal controls at subsidiaries
Suggesting and internalizing detailed guidelines for
ethical management

Consolidating the compliance-related council
Implementing compliance assessment and consulting
Proactively responding to changes in legal and
regulatory environments

18

Group-level Ethical
Management Activities

19

KB Financial Group’s ethical management operates at two levels: common activities across the Group
and activities at respective subsidiaries. The division of activities is intended to keep ethical management
up-to-date as well as aligned with the characteristics of subsidiaries’ businesses, while the essential
components of a financial company’s business are managed at the group level.
Activities at Subsidiaries Aligned with Business Characteristics
Establishment and
Operation of the
Codes of Ethics

Building
Infrastructure for
Ethical Management

Internal Control Activities
and Monitoring

Other Legal Support

The Group’s Ethical Management System

Compliance with the Ethics Charter and the Code of Ethics
In January 2010, KB Financial Group established the Ethics Charter which is applicable across the Group
and declared its commitment to ethical management so that all employees regard ethical management
as their foremost value. All employees practice business ethics in accordance with the Code of Ethics,
which embodies the Ethics Charter philosophy and states the criteria for making value judgments and the
principles of conduct.

Creating an Internal Control Environment and Operating Internal Control System
Setting Up an Internal Control Support System l KB Financial Group operates the ‘Compliance
Monitoring Council’ and the ‘Compliance Monitoring Working Council’ to solidify the collaborative
system for internal controls at the group level. The purpose is to promote the sharing of information and
exchange between subsidiaries and the ‘Legal Affairs Council’ to accurately identify and deal with legal
risks that are related to major lawsuits against subsidiaries.

Strengthening Internal Controls at Subsidiaries l To strengthen internal controls at subsidiaries, the
Group gathers examples of violations and implements activities to prevent similar cases from recurring.
In addition to this, it is monitoring performance at its subsidiaries to keep check on the status of
compliance. the Group conducts its monitoring activities on a quarterly basis through periodic reporting
by the subsidiaries as well as on-site monitoring of the status of compliance at the subsidiaries.

Strengthening Internal Control Activities
Operating a Compliance Program l The Group operates a compliance program to impose legal
sanctions on violations of law, prevent financial losses and avoid damage to the reputation, and also
for establishing a healthy culture of internal controls. The Compliance Program consists of activities for
preventing unfair transactions of financial/investment products, compliance checklist management and
monitoring at respective teams, and compliance training. The activities are aligned with the business
characteristics of the respective subsidiaries.
Compliance Monitoring Program
Reinforcing activities to prevent unfair
transactions of financial investment products

Notifying examples of recipients of short-swing profits and precautions

Managing the Compliance Checklist and
strengthening monitoring

Strengthening the adequacy of monitoring through amendments to the Compliance
Checklist at each department, and conducting theme-based monitoring

Compliance Training

Training on the standards of compliance for employees and on the programs
intended to prevent unfair transactions

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Operating the ‘Right Whistleblowing Program’ at the Group l KB Financial Group operates the
‘Right Whistleblowing Program’ for employees so that they can avoid violating the internal control

Means of Whistleblowing

standards of the holding company and its subsidiaries while preventing accidents from occurring

Internal channels (Compliance Officer)
-Mail, Telephone, Fax, KB-WiseNet Banner, etc.

across the company. Reports can be filed by mail, telephone, or online. Cases are investigated by the

External channels (KB Ombudsman)
-Telephone Calls to Designated Lawyer, e-mail, etc.

or improvements can be requested to amend unreasonable processes. Disciplinary action against any

responsible department or the investigation department, and depending on the results, corrections
violating employee or a reward for a whistleblower can be suggested.

Implementing Compliance Monitoring l KB Financial Group has a solid internal control system
through compliance monitoring, which includes pre-deliberation of the important tasks of the holding
company, checking dual employment, and a survey of the appropriateness of outsourcing.

Responding to Changes in Legal and Regulatory Environments
To strengthen its ability to cope with legal and regulatory changes, the Group reviews and discloses both
details and effects of major laws. These laws are then scheduled to be enacted or amended while examining
the progress of response. Also, through legal consultation and replies to legal questions, the Group has
established its standards of legitimate and unified performance of duties to minimize legal risks.

Ethical Management
Activities at Subsidiaries

Declaration of New Ethical Management Practice
In December 2001, KB Kookmin Bank established its Codes of Ethics which provides employees the criteria
for value judgments and conduct. The company also developed the ‘Employee Standards of Conduct for
Compliance’ as specific guidelines for employees to comply with the Codes of Ethics in the ordinary course
of business. Also, in September 2013, KB Kookmin Bank created the ‘New Ethical Management Practice’
program to re-establish standards for ethical management so that employees could once again gain the trust
of various stakeholders. The goal is to continue to pursue mutual growth and incorporate such standards into
the corporate culture.

KB Person’s Ethics Motto l The motto states the reasons why the company continues to exist and how
it aims to achieve growth. The method used contains provisions regarding customer delight, respect for
employees and the fulfillment of social responsibilities.

‘Legal and Ethical Business’ Decision-Making Guidelines l These are decision-making guidelines for
conducting ‘legal and ethical business’, abiding by the fundamentals and principles built upon the KB
Person’s Ethics Motto. They put forward the seven Dos and three Don’ts.

Ethical Management System
(KB Kookmin Bank)
Ethical Management
Standards of Conduct for
Employees Compliance
KB Person’s Ethics Motto
‘Legal and Ethical Business’

Decision-Making Guidelines

The Seven Dos and Three Don’ts
Seven Dos
➊ Be sure that the present financial product is suitable for the customer’s

circumstances and needs such as: their age, experience, and assets.
➋ Ensure that the company fully understands and complies with the sales
process required by law.
➌ Check whether the company fully understands and complies with the work
processes stated in bank regulations.
➍ Provide customers with an adequate explanation and make sure that they
understand it.
➎ Sell products from the perspective of portfolio management to protect the
customer’s assets and increase their asset value.
➏ Inform customers of follow-ups for the financial products sold.
➐ Adequately protect all customers’ personal information.

Three Don’ts
➊ Do NOT discriminate against

customers or conduct unethical
business practices to achieve
goals without legitimate
reasons.
➋ Do NOT sell products that are
not helpful to either the bank or
customers only for short-term
gains.
➌ Do NOT behave or appear in
a way that may damage the
company’s reputation.

20

21

Ethical Management Culture and Training
Establishing Ethical Management Culture l Under the supervision of the President, KB Kookmin
Bank holds a monthly internal control meeting attended by the entire management. During this time,
training is conducted with regards to the importance of ethical management. Through internal controls
and compliance, the company also prevents financial incidents and quickly spreads management’s
commitment to ethical management.

Implementing Effective Training l KB Kookmin Bank, KB Investment and KB Savings Bank provide
monthly ethical management training. KB Kookmin Bank and KB Investment, in particular, have the
manager of each team directly training their employees. Meanwhile, KB Data System conducts ethical
management training in the first and second halves respectively. All subsidiaries are required to include
compliance and ethical management training in their job training courses. Each year, all employees must
complete mandatory cyber courses on ethical management. KB Investment & Securities encourages
participation in training by incorporating the results of various employees of varying levels’ ethical training
into their performance evaluations.
Ethical Management Training Results
(KB Kookmin Bank)
Training description

Monitoring and Feedback on Ethical Management Practice

No. of
Training hours attendees

A Survey of Employees’
Ethical Awareness

Idea Contest for Employees

Prevention of financial incidents, training on the Right
Whistleblowing Program

0.4~0.5

All
employees

Raising awareness of ethics
and legal compliance

0.3~1.4

All
employees

1

4,298

KB Financial Group holds an idea contest for all employees in connection
with solutions to raise their ethical awareness and improve ethical
practices and compliance with laws. Throughout the contest, the Group
aims to increase all employees ’ interest in ethics and legal compliance.
The Group offers rewards for the best ideas and uses those ideas to make
improvements to existing programs.
KB Kookmin Bank held an ‘Innovative Idea Contest’ and collected a total of
249 ideas. Among these, the company has closely examined thirty-one ideas,
which were double-checked, and then reviewed them for improvement.

Training on improvement of
problems with internal controls
for respective branch offices
Training on ethics/legal
compliance and anti-money
laundering

1~6

5,167

Training for responsible
employees on internal
control duties

2~6

2,693

KB Kookmin Bank and KB Kookmin
Card conducts an ethical awareness
survey regularly to spread ethical
management practices. Through an
online survey, the companies assess
levels of ethical awareness at the
individual and organizational levels,
then carry out personalized activities
to raise ethical awareness.

Prevention of Financial Incidents
Prohibition of Improper Sales l

To prevent improper sales, KB Kookmin Bank conducts ‘Mystery

Shopping’. In 2013, the company increased t number of random checks. KB Kookmin Bank received a
positive evaluation during all mystery shop checks supervised by an independent supervisory agency.
To reach zero percent of improper sales, KB Life Insurance conducted a self-inspection of the ratio
of improper sales and carried out improvement activities Such activities included strengthening the
subscription process based on an assessment of problems arising from respective channels, reflecting the
bank manager’s evaluations, spreading proper sales and reinforcing training. KB Life Insurance earned
a ‘Good’ grade on the 2013 “Petition Evaluation” performed by Financial Supervisory Service, and has
maintained high grades for the past five years.
Eligible Items for Mystery Shopping and
Increase in Number of Shops
• Mystery shopping under the supervision of the
Department of Consumer Protection
- Eligible items: Fund, ELS, credit cards, variable life
insurance
- Number of shops: Twice a year (2012)
→ 10 shops a year (2013)
• Announcement of survey results and feedback for
each session
• Reinforcing training for sales channels in response to
mystery shop results

2013 Mystery Shop Evaluation Results
(KB Kookmin Bank)

ELS

92.9 points

Financial Supervisory
Service
Fund

83.4 points

Financial Supervisory
Service

Variable Life
Insurance

89.6

points
Financial Supervisory
Service
Fund

Good

Korea Investor Protection
Foundation

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

2013 Evaluation Results of the
Anti-Money Laundering Program
(KB Investment & Securities)

Anti-Money Laundering and Avoiding Conflict of Interests l KB Kookmin Bank, KB Investment &

Excellent
Grade

Financial Intelligence Unit’s criteria for anti-money laundering. The company operates a comprehensive

Securities, KB Life Insurance and KB Real Estate Trust carry out self assessment with regard to anti-money
laundering operations. KB Investment & Securities particularly conducts self-inspection based on the Korea
money-laundering risk assessment system including product and transaction risks so that it can analyze

Korea Financial
Intelligence Unit

suspicious transactions and report any such transactions to the Korea Financial Intelligence Unit.

Win-Win Growth through Fair Trade
Laying the Foundation for Fair Trade l When conducting business with its partners, KB Kookmin Bank
discloses all information on bids and private contracts through its electronic procurement system. The
company pursues fair and transparent contracts by allowing bidders to participate in bids. In addition,
when entering a contract, the company pledges not to engage in unfair practices, such as gift exchange
or entertainment. In case of a breach of this pledge, the company implements the ‘Ethical Contract
Program’, in which sanctions are imposed. Consequences include immediate termination of contracts,
suspension of transactions and/or restrictions on bidding. Furthermore, the company also strives to
reduce the financial burden on business partners during transactions. For instance, the bank allows
cash payments within the shortest period of time from the billing date. Then it incorporates contract
provisions, such as the replacement of bidding by using a letter of commitment for those partners
who meet certain requirements, and there are also contract deposit exemptions for small transactions
totalling less than KRW 30 million. KB Asset Management monitors asset allocation in advance to
prevent unfair allocation of certain funds and also frequently checks whether there have been any unfair
transactions made by monitoring the amount of transactions for each vendor.
Business Partner Satisfaction Survey
Results (KB Kookmin Bank) (unit: point)

Increasing Business Partner Satisfaction l KB Kookmin Bank holds meetings with business partners
and conducts satisfaction surveys. The purpose of these surveys is to incorporate our business partners ’

2011

96.3

opinions for improving purchasing practices. In 2013, KB Kookmin Bank earned a score of 98.3 in

2012

97.4

the business partner satisfaction index. In addition, KB Kookmin Card performs relative and absolute

2013

98.3

Future Plans

evaluations, and has a reward program for partners with high QA scores to solidify its relationships with
the Call Center’s outsourcing partners, encouraging fair competition among business partners.
KB Financial Group plans to identify future strategic directions and tasks that reflect changes in the external
regulatory environment (e.g. regulatory laws and governance improvements) and those in the internal
control environment (e.g. improvements to the internal control process and programs; and reinforcement of
financial consumer protection). To this end, the Group will implement a wide range of activities.

2014-2016 Strategic Directions and Tasks
Strategic Direction

Task

Consolidating the Internal
Control Support System

Solidifying the compliance monitoring council, the working council and the
legal affairs council thus increasing their efficiency

Creating an effective internal
control environment

Raising ethical awareness among employees through compliance checklists
and internal control training; and reducing violations of internal control standards through advanced review of compliance and consultation

Reinforcing support for internal
control systems and monitoring
activities at subsidiaries

Maintaining channels to report the status of internal controls at subsidiaries,
and strengthening compliance monitoring activities through document/location checks

Proactive response to changes in Strengthening the ability to cope with changes to financial laws and the envilegal and regulatory environments ronment, and promoting timely, legal response
Strengthening support activities
to minimize legal risks

Continuously implementing support activities, such as reducing the risk of
legal disputes and responding to issues like lawsuits and petitions

22

23

03
Risk
Management
Activities

What Is KB’s View on Risk Management?
Unlike companies in other industries, financial firms are vulnerable to a variety of risks.
Therefore, management should make decisions and perform activities based on thorough
analysis of risks. Improper risk management can not only lead to financial losses but also to
a loss of the customer trust, which could ultimately destroy a company.
Scope of this Issue KB Financial Group oversees risk management with respect to matters that need to
be commonly managed at the group level. Risks arising from the business environments of subsidiaries

Systemic and
Proactive Risk
Management

are managed at the subsidiary level.

Key Risks and Opportunities
Proactive risk management is very important in coping with the global financial crisis and
continued uncertainty. However, as risks are becoming more diverse, it is becoming more
difficult to assess their impacts.
Through strict predictions and management, KB Financial Group will endeavor to gain an
unparalleled competitive advantage as a global financial company.

Our Approach to Risk Management
KB Financial Group is strengthening its risk asset management policies, such as loans for
first-time customers and corporate/SOHO loans. This is done in order to establish solid credit
culture focused on blue-chip assets. In addition to this, the Group subdivides types of risks
and makes an action plan for each type to ensure thorough management. All types of risks
should be measured, but operational/strategy/reputation risks caused by non-financial
factors are primarily managed through the monitoring and improvement of processes such
as internal controls.

Details and Outcomes

Strengthening
the integrity
of assets

Building an
advanced risk
management
system

Plans and Goals

•

Defining the Group’s risk appetite and establish a risk policy

•

•

Defining risk limits at respective subsidiaries

•

•

Cleaning up bad credit and strengthening potentially
high-risk loan management

Consolidating the follow-up management system for
non-performing loans
• Re-establishing a household portfolio credit policy

•
•

Developing an advanced corporate credit rating model

•

Building a model for the recovery of non-performing loans

•

•

•
•

Building the Group’s RDM and RWA calculation systems
Establishing an implementation plan for the Internal
Ratings-Based Approach

*RDM : Risk Data Mart / RWA : Risk Weighted Asset

Overhauling risk management systems for overseas sectors
Developing an advanced risk management system at
each subsidiary
Strengthening the expertise of risk officers

Building a group-wide internal Basel II and Basel III
model system
•Building a framework for the management of qualitative
requirements for group-wide operational risks
• Building infrastructure and improving the management
system for regulatory management for each financial region
•

Responding
to changes
in regulatory
environment

Tightening criteria for integrity index target management

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Group-level Risk
Management Activities

Risk Management Organization
Risk Management Committee l The Risk Management Committee establishes risk management
strategies and determines the tolerable level of risk. In addition, the committee reviews the level of risks
that the Group faces but also the status of risk management activities. In 2013, the committee held five
meetings to identify the 2014 Group risk appetite and defined the Group’s economic capital limit and
total exposure limits of subsidiaries.

Risk Management Council l The Risk Management Council is a consultative group comprised of the
Chief Risk Officers of the holding company and subsidiaries. It reviews and makes decisions on matters
delegated by the Risk Management Committee. Their responsibility is to discuss detailed issues relating
to the Group’s risk management.

Risk Management Department l The holding company’s Risk Management Department manages
specific policies, procedures and work processes relating to the Group ’s risk management, and is
responsible for monitoring and managing economic capital limits.
Classiﬁcation of Risk Types

Major Items Reported by Risk
Management Committee

Type

· Current status of KB Kookmin Bank’s overseas
risk management
· Plans to improve the integrity of KB Kookmin
Bank’s assets
· Current status of credit card risks and
management plans
· KB Kookmin Bank’s high-risk asset risk

Description

Interest Rate Risk Risk of loss due to unfavorable movements in market interest rates
Liquidity Risk

Risk of insolvency or loss due to disparity between inflow and outflow of funds resulting from, for
example, maturity mismatches, obtaining funds at a high price or disposing of assets at an unfavorable price due to lack of available funds.

Market Risk

Risk of losses in trading positions arising from changes in market factors, such as interest rate, stock
price and foreign exchange rate.

Operational Risk

· Status of credit card portfolios and plans to
improve integrity

Risk of losses caused by improper or incorrect internal processes, human resources and systems; or
by external incidents.

Credit Risk

· Results of Phase 1 Project and implementation
plan for Phase 2 in the Group’s deployment of
Basel II and III

Risk of loss in asset portfolios in the event of a counterparty’s default, breach of contract or deterioration of the counterparty’s credit quality.

Risk Management Activities

management plan

· 2013 inspection results of risk management at
subsidiaries
· Results of adjustments to the economic capital
limits of subsidiaries
· 2014 Group-wide risk management policy
· Group’s integrated risk analysis report
· Group’s risk management status, etc.

For proactive and effective risk management, KB Financial Group plans to carry out a range of activities,
including defining a group-wide risk policy and limits, management and improvement of portfolio
integrity, implementing the project of group-wide adoption of Basel II and III. These activities are planned
to solidify and improve the risk-based foundation for decision-making, and are improving the loan
programs and processes. To proactively respond to changes in the regulatory environment, the Group
also upgraded its risk management system. This includes risk management methods, system deployment,
data management and the control structure through adoption of Basel III at the group level. With these
improvements, the Group is looking to increase the overall level of risk management and enhance the
integrity of group-wide management.

Group’s 5 Risk Management Activities
Policy / Limits

Response to Regulation

Programs/Processes

Integrity of Assets

Management System

Setting risk limits for subsidiaries for the balanced growth of
assets

Responding to Basel II and III
stronger capital requirements of
Financial Supervisory Service

Redeveloping the corporate
credit rating model

Strengthening the management Strengthening ability to analyze
of credit losses and making quali- the industry by shifting the portfotative improvements to portfolios lio management framework

Determining risk appetite (RA)
aligned to the Group’s management strategy for capital adequacy management

Phase 1: Building the Group’s
RDM and RWA calculation systems (in progress)

Building a model for the evaluation of recovering non-performing card assets and improving
follow-up operations

Continuing the deleveraging of
assets in high-risk categories
such as PF, construction, and
shipbuilding

Phase 2: Building the Group’s
integrated model (scheduled)

Preventing the spread of risks
through proactive household
portfolio management

Overhauling the overseas risk
management and monitoring
process

24

Major Risk Management
Activities at Subsidiaries

25

Independent Risk Management Organizations
At KB Kookmin Bank, decisions on risks are made by an independent Risk Management Committee
comprised largely of non-executive directors instead of by the bank’s Management Council. Under the
current rules, the Risk Management Committee must consist of at least three non-executive directors
who are to constitute the majority and among whom the Chairman is then elected.
The Risk Management Committee holds quarterly meetings. The CRO is not allowed to hold double
positions in investment or sales. This is so that the CRO can remain free of any interest or relationship
with the bank’s performance results.

Highest Risk-related Decision-Making Organization (KB Kookmin Bank)
Board of Directors
Risk Management Committee

· Establishing a risk management
policy and procedure
· Supervising the adequacy of risk
management activities

Risk Management Council
Credit Risk Management
Consultative Council

· Establishing risk management
strategies
· Determining tolerable risk levels

Financial Strategy Council
Financial Strategy Consultative
Council

Market Risk Management
Consultative Council
Operational Risk Management
Consultative Council

Establishment of the Risk Management Regulations System
To ensure proactive risk management, KB Asset Management has carried out activities according to its
risk management regulations, which state the roles and authority of the risk management organization,
methods for monitoring risks and follow-up methods. In addition, for more detailed risk management,
the company established nine investment management regulations, including the stock, bond, overseas,
real estate and infrastructure management and headquarters investment management guidelines.
Internal Risk Management Regulations and Characteristics
Regulation

Details

Risk Management
Regulations

· Regulations governing risk management
· Created and amended by the Board of Directors
· State the roles and authority of the risk management organization
(Risk Management Committee and dedicated teams)
· State monitoring and follow-up methods for respective risks

Collective Investment Asset
Risk Management Guideline

· Define risk types, such as market, credit, liquidity, operational risks, and state specific
management methods
· Prescribes measurement and limit management methods for respective risks

Hedge Fund Risk
Management Guidelines

·Special regulations for hedge fund risk management

Unique Asset Risk
Management Guidelines

· Guidelines for risk management and financial integrity management for the
company’s unique assets

Money Market Fund Risk
Management Guidelines

· Special regulations for money market fund management

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Risk Management System Improvement
For detailed measurements of interest rate risks, KB Life Insurance set up an Asset Liability Management
(ALM) system in December 2013 . Through this system, the company is now capable of applying
comprehensive management of assets and liabilities and thus can effectively take account of the risk
of the minimum guaranteed interest rates inherent in insurance products. Along with this system, the
company has also built a foundation for the integrated risk management system by jointly creating
an Economic Scenario Generator (ESG) with the Insurance Development Institute for risk volume
calculations, valuations and pricing.

Future Plans

Due to the slow recovery of both domestic and global economies, and also the growing uncertainty,
risk management has become even more important in the financial industry. By dealing with new loans
centering on blue-chip assets and by proactively managing possible risky assets, such as corporate/SOHO
loans, KB Financial Group will establish a sound credit culture. The Group will also learn from previous
incidents and consolidate a company-wide risk management system, ultimately securing a foundation
for growth.

Risk Management as a Strategic Decision-Making Partner
that Proactively Responds to Changing Markets
· Pursuing qualitative improvements to the portfolio by defining the improvement of the Group’s
asset integrity
· Enhancing the ability to proactively respond to crises by strengthening the company-wide risk
management system
· Having a firm position as a leading financial group by proactively responding to changes in the
regulatory environment

Stabilization of
the Group's
Financial
Soundness Index

- Tightening criteria for integrity index target management
- Consolidating the follow-up management system for non-performing
loans
- Re-establishing a household portfolio credit policy

Building an
Advanced Risk
Management
System

- Overhauling risk management systems for overseas sectors
- Developing an advanced risk management system at each subsidiary
- Strengthening the expertise of risk officers

Responding to
Changes in the
Regulatory
Environment

- Building a group-wide internal Basel II and Basel III model system
- Building a framework for the management of qualitative requirements for
group-wide operational risks
- Building infrastructure and improving the management system for
regulatory management for each financial region

26

2014 Group-wide Risk Management Guidelines for Respective Subsidiaries
Group Risk Guidelines

Risk Type

KB Kookmin
Bank

- Improving industrial concentration of the company’s portfolio
(large companies, SMEs, SOHO)
Credit/concentration risks
- Reinforcing target management of integrity indicators (default rate, recovery rate, etc.) Credit risk
- Overhauling risk management systems of overseas offices (including local
Overseas risk
companies and overseas locations of operation)

KB Kookmin
Card

- Enhancing financial integrity management and improving the recovery rate of
default bonds
- Tightening criteria for dealing with card assets (card loans, cash service, etc.)
- Building infrastructure for risk management and improving systems to respond to
regulation

Credit risk
Credit risk
Response to regulation

KB Investment
& Securities

- Continuously upgrading credit and risk management policies in the areas of
corporate finance and investment finance (real estate PF-related purchase
agreement, structuring finance accompanying payment guarantees)

Credit risk
Credit / market risks

KB Life
Insurance

- Consolidating the risk-based equity capital ratio management system

Response to regulation
Interest rate/ credit risks

KB Asset
Management

- Enhancing control of operational risks associated with alternative fund setup and
operation

Operational risk

KB Savings
Bank

- Reducing corporate loans and maintaining the credit policy focused on
small-amount household loans
- Overhauling and improving the risk management system in connection with the
merger with Yehansol Savings Bank

Credit risk
Operational risk

- Tightening criteria for dealing with loan-based land trust business
(investment volume, investment review, etc.)
- Tightening criteria for management of risky assets of unique property
(fund, REITs investment, etc.)

Credit risk

- Strengthening follow-up related to the pulling-out of investment companies
(aspiring IPO companies, major reporting companies, etc.)
- Strengthening follow-up related to investment funds close to expiration

Credit risk
Market risk

KB Real Estate
Trust

KB Investment

27

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

04
Increasing
Brand Value

What is KB’s View on Brand?
KB’s view on Brand is when a company provides consumers with a lot of information about a
specific product through advertising. After that, the consumers turn the information into an
image and recognize it as a brand. Such recognition significantly affects consumers’ choices
of products and/or services. Recently, brand-oriented economic behavior is increasingly

People’s Brand
to Prepare a Larger
Tomorrow for
Customers

prevalent, with consumers placing greater value on brands rather than the actual physical
object. Therefore in the current financial market, with intensifying competition, brands are
becoming the strongest competitive factor.
Scope of this Issue KB Financial Group recognizes the power that brands wield over companies and
implements a wide variety of brand management activities at both the group and subsidiary levels.

Key Risks and Opportunities
Since KB Financial Group is in the domestic financial business, there are no big differences
in products and services among other financial companies and this is when brands play a
critical role in consumers’ product choice While companies can certainly reap the benefits of
active brand management, such as growth of sales and increased corporate value, they can
also suffer huge losses in the competition if they neglect such activities.

Our Approach to Brands
KB Financial Group recognizes the importance of brand power and continues its efforts
to improve the Group’s brand image and develop brand identification. Instead of using a
simple slogan, the Group’s brand management policy dictates that a brand should have
content and substance. Therefore, under the philosophy of ‘Finance like Timely Rainfall’,
people get help when they need it, KB Financial Group implements strategic brand
management activities based on its own products and services.

Details and Outcome
Improving synergy
in the Group
through brand

•

Establishing the Group’s brand identity

•

Launching the “Finance for People” advertising campaign

•

Building image of “Finance like Timely Rainfall”

•

Becoming the first financial group to rank 1st place in a
top-of-mind survey

Plans and Goals

•

•

•

Strategic sports
marketing

•

Promoting the brand through the Sochi Winter Olympics
(Kim Yuna, Lee Sang-hwa, etc.)

•

Implementing a long-term, consistent series of
advertisements
Re-establishing the brand image to restore trust

Fostering a positive brand image through long-term
sponsorship
Continuously sponsoring less popular sports for the
public good

*Siwoo (‘Timely Rainfall’) Finance: ‘Siwoo’ is a Korean word which refers to rain that falls with perfect timing. It represents KB Financial
Group’s commitment to becoming a customer- and people-friendly financial company that provides financial services which meet the
needs of the customer just when they need them.

28

Group-level Activities to
Increase Brand Value

29

Strategy to Maximize Brand Value
Under the brand strategy of ‘establishing its image as a leading people-serving financial company’,
KB Financial Group has defined and begun to implement the specific strategic tasks of: Improving the
Group’s image as ‘Finance for People’ and ‘Finance like Timely Rainfall’, 'Building Genuine Leadership'.
These programs deliver dreams and hope to people. ‘Back to Basics’ is the Group’s official management
philosophy. In addition, the Group is taking steps to become a global financial brand leading the Asian
financial industry by using the “Umbrella Strategy”. This strategy means that subsidiaries’ operations
are supported by increasing the brand power of the Group and its bank. Through the ‘Individual Brand
Strategy’, respective subsidiaries are constantly exposed to the ‘People’ brand.

Increasing KB Financial Group’s Brand Power
The ‘Umbrella Strategy’ of supporting subsidiaries’ operations
by increasing KB Financial Group’s brand power
Individual Brand Strategy
Integrated brand strategy of exposing the ‘People’ brand in various ways through subsidiaries’ individual advertising campaigns

2014 - 2016
2011-2013

Cementing its image as
a leading financial group
serving the people

Building an image as a
leading financial group

“Solid Finance”

“We always think about
the people.”

2017~
A global financial brand
leading the Asian
financial industry

Fostering a Positive Image Towards People
- Implementing the ‘Finance for People’ advertising campaign to
foster a positive image
- Implementing a campaign to build the image of ‘Finance like
Timely Rainfall’

Building Genuine Leadership

Public Advertising Campaign episode entitled
'The People Can Do It'

- Improving its image as a financial company delivering dreams and
hope to the people

Back to the Basic
- Supporting the retention of finance’s sales capability
- Implementing sports marketing aligned with brand identity
(Finance for People), such as discovering new talent and supporting
amateur athletes

Brand Management Using Synergy within the Group
KB Financial Group seeks to strengthen its brand value through group-wide brand management
activities. In particular, the Group improves synergy by promoting its image, managing designs and
marketing itself through sports.

Group Image Promotion l KB Financial Group aims to increase brand value through group-wide
brand management activities. Its image building efforts include advertising, The People’s Future (2012).
This suggests that KB will deliver hope and a bright future to the people. The second advertisement is
People Can Do It (2013). Through printed ads which contain important messages, the Group continues
to promote its brand. Furthermore, it presents various aspects of the ‘ People ’ brand through the
advertisements of individual subsidiaries.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Group’s Current Sports Marketing
Winter Sports
Korea Skating Union
Korea Curling Federation
Kim Yuna (Figure skating)
Lee Sang-hwa (Speed skating)
Shim Suk-hee (Short track speed
skating)
Park So-youn (Figure skating)
Kim Hye-jin (Figure skating)

Philosophy of Sports Marketing and
Sponsorship

Golf

Rhythmic Gymnastics

KB Financial Group STAR
Championship
KB Financial Group Amateur
Championship
Park In-bi
Ahn Song-yi
Oh Ji-hyeon

Other Sponsorships

Korea Gymnastic Association
(Rhythmic Gymnastics)
Son Yeon-jae

KB Kookmin Bank Korea Baduk
League
KB Kookmin Bank College
Basketball League
KB Kookmin Bank Professional
Basketball

Athletic Clubs (Kookmin Bank)
KB Stars Basketball Club
KB Archery Club

Group Sports Marketing l Through sports marketing, KB Financial Group is sending a consistent
message about its brand image. In 2013, the Group was able to increase brand awareness by sponsoring

➊ Long-term, continuous support

professional golfer, Park In-bi, and hosting the KB STAR Championship. In addition, during the 2014

➋ Conveying a consistent brand

Winter Olympics, curling became popular and brought KB Financial Group into the spotlight as well.

message

➌ Sponsoring less popular sports

for the public good

Currently, KB Financial Group’s sports marketing team is putting its efforts towards winter sports like
skating and curling, as well as golf, rhythmic gymnastics, baduk and basketball.

Establishing the Group’s Consistent Brand Identity l To promote the Group as a specialized financial
group, increase customer trust and solidify a bond with its subsidiaries, KB Financial Group is operating a CI
system. By collecting cases of improper application of CI and communicating them to the subsidiaries, the
Group is also able to develop new application items while maintaining an integrated CI system.
Key Outcomes
Group’s CI System
Operation and
Management

•

Design

•

Collecting cases of improper application of CI across the Group and communicating
them to the subsidiaries
• Group-wide management and dissemination of the CI system
Helping subsidiaries create designs and conducting inspections
Providing and inspecting designs related to major events within the Group
• Helping non-banking subsidiaries create designs
• Inspecting, planning and managing production of advertising materials within the Group
•

*KB Financial Group, 2013 Financial Market Competitiveness Survey for ages 20 to 64,
*As of December 31, 2013

2012
Group A

Group B

10.3

12.4

KB Financial Group

2013

Group C

5.3

2011

5.8

Q. What’s the first thing that comes to mind when you hear the words
‘financial group’?

14.0

brand competitiveness by communicating with its customers.

22.9

Financial Group will remain humble and is committed to increasing its

6.2

minds of customers when presented with a specific product category. KB

26.1

23.0

mind survey. Top-of-mind awareness refers to a brand coming first to the

25.0

29.0

KB Financial Group scored the highest in the industry in the 2013 top-of-

28.1

The First Financial Group to Rank 1st in the Top-of-Mind Survey

30

Major Outcomes of
Brand Management at
Subsidiaries

31

Best Korean Brands - Ranking 1st in Best Korean Brands - Banking Sector
KB Kookmin Bank reported a brand value of KRW 2,614,700 million (roughly 2.6 trillion) and ranked 1st
place in the banking sector and 9th place in the Korean industry overall in the 2014 Best Korean Brands
announced by Interbrand, a global brand valuation service.
Awards and Recognition for KB Kookmin Bank’s Brand
Ranked 1st place in the banking sector of the 2013 Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) for fifteen consecutive years (Korea Management Association Consulting)
Ranked 1st place in the banking sector of the 2013 Korea Brand Star for seven consecutive years (Brand Stock)
Ranked 3rd place in the 2013 Top100 Korean Brands (Brand Stock)
Selected as the best brand in the banking sector of the 2013 NBCI (National Brand Competitiveness
Index) Service Sector (Korea Productivity Center)
Selected as the best brand in the banking sector of the 2013 Highest Brand for three consecutive years
(Brand Stock)
Best Korea Brands
A program in which Interband selects and announces Korea’s fifty best brands by
converting asset values of each brand into monetary value. This is achieved by using
the agency’s method of evaluating brands in three aspects: Financial prediction,
brand impact and brand strength.

Staying with Simple Designs with Traditional Elements
Creating and Expanding a Hangul (Korean Alphabet)-based Product Naming System l The HunMin-Jeong-Eum Card is KB’s product. This card classifies customers’ styles into four types, just like the
four Hangul characters 훈 (Hun), 민 (Min), 정 (Jeong) and 음 (Eum) which follow the title of the first ever
document to be written in Hangul. This is very easy for all Koreans to understand and remember. All these
types provide separate benefits. Customers can choose a card that suits their needs the best.
The company will continue to develop products using the Korean alphabet. This method helps customers
easily understand cards and use them conveniently. Using this strategy will make more people identify
with the brand’s message, ‘Power behind People’s Lives.’

Continuously Implementing BI Improvement Experience and Identification Activities through
Design Management l KB Kookmin Card’s new design features 'simplicity' on the card plate and
uses the five basic colors so that it may embody the Korean spirit and be completely free of unnecessary
elements. Our philosophy will be applied to as many products as possible so that customers can decorate
their wallets.

Future Plans

The recent data breach incident adversely affected KB Financial Group’s brand image. The Group has
established the 2014 main management goal as ‘Rebuilding its brand through honest communication
with customers’ and aims to restore customers’ trust.
The image of KB Financial Group’s brand image is being promoted in a variety of public campaigns.
Its main purpose is to show its continuous and consistent image. The Group will continue to widely
communicate its commitment to grow alongside the people. Moreover, the Group will strive to build its
image as a sincere and reliable brand by sharing images and details of its various management activities
with its customers.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

05
Social
Contribution
through Finance

What Is KB’s View on Contributing to the Society through Finances?
As society’s interest in good consumption (purchasing) grows, companies develop and
provide products and services that not only bring profits, but also contribute to society. These
products and services are interlinked with an understanding of the nature of the financial
business and are causing a stir in the financial market. KB Financial Group believes that
‘Good Financial’ products, including products for the good of the public and green financial

products which embody the essence of finance, will be the company’s competitive strength

Enriching the
Futures of the
People through
Finance

and will also play an important role in actualizing social contribution.
Scope of this Issue Social contribution through finance is being extended through KB Financial Group’s
interaction with personal and corporate customers who use the Group’s financial products.

Key Risks and Opportunities
Financial products and services as part of the company’s contribution to society could
be viewed as unreasonable for the time being due to rising costs and low profitability.
However, in the long run, products and services through which customers and
companies can grow together could provide opportunities to build consumer trust,
improve the company ’ s image and secure loyal customers. Furthermore, through
finance, the company can also contribute to building a healthier and richer society.

Our Approach to Financial Products and Services
KB Financial Group doesn’t set out with the sole goal of financial gain, but follows an
approach that aims to contribute to society by developing products and services which
can improve the quality of life of all people. To this end, the Group has developed
customer-centered products optimized for customers ’ needs and is fulfilling its social
responsibilities through these products and services.

Details and Outcomes
Financial support
for low-income
groups

Support for small,
medium, and
strong medium
enterprises

•

Launching a product called “Good Loan”

•

•

Creating the “Small Loan Clinic”

•

•

Launching a product called “Seeds of Hope”

•

•

•
•

Expanding
areas of social
responsibility

Plans and Goals

•
•

Contributing about KRW 100 billion to provide
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) low-interest loans

•

Conducting a corporate social responsibility evaluation
of SMEs (4,524 companies)

•

Implementing “KB Hidden Star 500”
Organizing an investment association for KB’s Future
Creation start-up support
Testing products by taking account of customers’ feedback
Making investments in areas related to offshore, wind
power, and solar power

•

•

•

Re-building the credit scoring system (CSS)
Strengthening the essential duty of savings account by
supplying finance for low-income people

Expanding investments for ventures, SMEs and strong
medium enterprises
Holding management consulting and forums for SMEs/
strong medium enterprises
Creating a fund worth KRW 50 billion to support SMEs
with excellent intellectual property

Reinforcing reviews in social and environmental aspects
when developing new products
Reinforcing socially responsible investment (SRI) activities

32

Finance Towards a
Prosperous Society

33

Management Activities Pursuing Sustainability
KB Financial Group believes that the essence of financial business is building a prosperous society.
When a company grows together with its customers instead of just chasing money, it can gain the trust
of the customers and society can evolve overall. Through ‘financial support for low-income groups’,
‘development and support for small, medium and strong medium enterprises’ and ‘expanding areas of

social responsibility’, KB Financial Group promotes finance-based socially contributive activities and each of
its subsidiaries also carries out related business activities.
In addition to this, the Group enforces restrictions on newly developing businesses and products if they
are harmful to society despite their profitability, and instead prefers to partake in business activities
which are for the public interest.
Participation in the UN Global Compact
The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is the
world’s largest corporate civic initiative. KB
Kookmin Bank joined the UNGC in April 2009
and has since incorporated its10 principles
of its four areas (human rights, labor,
environment, and anti-corruption) into its
business operations.

Development of
Sustainable Products and
Services

Three Activity Areas of Business Operations for the Public Interest

Development and Support for
Small, Medium, and Strong
Medium Enterprises

Financial Support for
Low-Income Groups

Expanding Areas of Social
Responsibility

Deliberation and Evaluation before Product Launch
When developing a new product, KB Kookmin Bank enhances the its sustainability be reviewing the
risks, pricing policy, operation process and whether the product violates customers’ rights. We begin
the evaluation of the sustainability of a product by collecting the opinions of customers through a
Focus Group Interview (FGI). Upon gathering opinions through the FGI, the Product Committee checks
potential risks and verifies its commercial quality. After that, through a Financial Strategy Deliberation
Committee meeting, the company confirms an applicable interest rate and service charges management
plan. Then through the New Product Sales Promotion Committee, it reviews a plan to support sales
promotion for the relevant department before launching the product. We continue to evaluate the
product even after its launch and monitor it for six months after its sale.
Product Development Process (KB Kookmin Bank)
Conducting FGI

Product
Committee

Financial Strategy
Deliberation
Committee

New Product
Sales Promotion
Committee

Monitoring for 6
months after sale

KB Kookmin Bank and KB Kookmin Card operates a comprehensive verification process by which a new
product is examined through the Product Committee’s pre-deliberation program and obtains approval
from related departments in regards to profitability, market, operational and reputational risks and
applicable laws. Finally, the product is released after the Compliance Officer grants approval.

Deliberation Activities of Compliance Ofﬁcer

(unit: case)

KB Kookmin Bank
Item
Deliberation cases before product
development
eliberation cases before advertising /
releasing PR materials

KB Kookmin Card

2011

2012

2013

2011

2012

2013

170

170

191

31

17

13

944

774

714

2,185

2,601

3,800

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Low-Interest Loan Products to Support Basic Living

‘Siwoo (Timely Rainfall)’

Financial Products and
Services that Contribute to
People’s Lives

KB Kookmin Bank provides consulting channels and services for citizens with low incomes which
includes the Small Loan Clinic, the Small Loan Consulting Office and the Household Debt Settlement
Program. In particular, the company provides customers who have difficulty visiting the consulting office
with small loan products and information on handling household debt through the Small Loan Clinic
which is increasing financial accessibility. In addition to this the ‘KB Seeds of Hope’ product is aimed at
providing support for basic living in the form of low-interest bank loans to customers struggling with
high-interest loans from non-bank financial institutions.
Meanwhile, KB Savings Bank released a small-loan product called the ‘KB Good Loan’. The product is
designed to serve the essential purpose of a savings bank and is aimed at customers who have difficulty
accessing bank services due to their poor credit history. The KB Good Loan is cementing its leading position
in the area of small loans through its accomplishments such as receiving the Financial Products and Services
Innovation Award in the small loan category at the 2013 Money Today Financial Innovation Awards.

Investment in Young Entrepreneurs
KB Investment supports young entrepreneurs and competent start-up companies by providing them with
KRW 15 billion through the KoFC-KB Youth Start-up Investment Association. Its main goal is investing
in start-up companies in their early stages. As of late 2013, investments worth KRW 7.3 billion were
directed towards eight early-stage companies. Furthermore, in 2013 the company organized the Future
Creation KB Start-up Support Investment Association with KRW 25 billion to invest in innovative start-up
companies and create jobs in order to realize a ‘creative economy’.

Investments for the Growth of Small and Medium Enterprises
To increase growth opportunities for both large companies and their business partners and to help transform
outstanding small and medium enterprises into global medium companies, the Group created the KoFCPosco-Hanwha-KB Win-Win Growth PEF and invested a total of KRW 55 billion in two partner companies.
Management Service to Support the Growth of Venture Firms and SMEs (KB Investment)

Setup of SME Investment Fund and
Investment Status (KB Investment)
(unit: KRW 100 million)

2012

2013

Funds Venture
450
500
Cre- Association
ated PEF
2,000 5,400

250

2011

Item

Invest- Venture
ments Investments
Made PE
Investments

489

301

467

369

922

600

Recruitment Support

Information Network
Building Support

Management
Consulting Service

Recommending exceptionally
talented individuals and
appointing them to appropriate
positions through a human
resource network

Supporting the sharing of
information and technology
through exchange of human
resources among companies
in the same industry

Active management support
through the in-house Value
Creation Team which comprises
lawyers, accountants and
management consultants.

Responsible Investment for a Sustainable Society
As a UNEP FI member, KB Kookmin Bank complies with UNEP FI’s principles when making investment
decisions. The feasibility of all projects is determined through deliberation based on the bank ’s principle
of responsible investment. The company also strives to participate in the solar and wind power
development PF - a green business project actively being carried out by KB Financial Group.

2013 Results of Socially Responsible Investment (Offshore/Wind/Solar Powered PF projects)
Classification

Unit

2011

2012

2013

Number of New PF Projects

Case

-

1

2

Cost of New PF Projects

KRW 100 million

-

50

1,600

Remaining Balance

KRW 100 million

1,081

606

696

34

35

KB Hidden Star 500

Special Issue

‘KB Hidden Star 500’ is an enterprise growth support project aimed at identifying and providing tailored

Win-win partnerships
with SMEs

services for promising small to medium-sized businesses equipped with superior technology, financial sta-

(KB Kookmin Bank)

global firms. The company provided KRW 1,903.5 billion in loans and made equity investments totalling

bility (revenue, credit ratings, etc.) and business viability as well as high growth and potential to become
KRW 37.9 billion for 304 companies before the end of 2013. The company also operates the ‘KB Business
Matching Service’ to help selected companies find overseas markets, and continues to strengthen its collaborative relationships with related agencies such as the Korea International Trade Association and KOTRA.
In 2014, the company plans on continuously operating the KB Wise Consulting and KB Creative Leaders
Forum programs to uncover ‘hidden star’ companies and pursue shared growth with outstanding SMEs.

Encouraging Sustainable Management at Small and Medium Enterprises
To encourage its partners to fulfill their social responsibilities and to strengthen loan risk management,
the company conducts an annual social responsibility assessment. The social responsibility assessment is
designed to evaluate each partner’s ethical management activities and environmentally-friendly operations

Companies that Received SME Social
Responsibility Assessment
(Unit: company)

(green growth industry, etc.). The results of the assessment are incorporated into the partner’s credit assessment as a non-financial item. Furthermore, the company also includes a non-financial assessment in the
credit scoring system for companies requiring external audits in order to give preferential treatment to companies using green technologies. Meanwhile, in 2013, the company signed a financial support agreement for

2011

5,655

2012

5,283

2013

4,524

‘Outstanding Environmental Businesses’ selected by the Ministry of Environment and provided preferential

loan and savings interest rates together with KB WISE Financial Consulting services to 10 companies with
outstanding business performance and technologies selected by the Ministry of Environment to strengthen
their market competitiveness. The company also continues supporting green SMEs financially by sponsoring
the National Green Technology Awards where outstanding green companies are discovered, and by applying
preferential interest rates to companies associated with green growth.

Number of Individual Members Enrolled
at KB Good Job

38,000
Number of Member companies Enrolled
at KB Good Job

12,000
*As of December 2013

KB Good Job
KB Good Job is a project begun by KB Financial Group in 2011 to link young and retired job seekers to SMEs
having difficulty with hiring and resolve social problems. Through the website, job information is provided
in real time, and an annual job fair is held where top-ranking SMEs attend. By 2013, there were 6 job fairs,
through which information about 48,000 jobs was provided. The Group is spearheading efforts to resolve
youth unemployment, such as providing an employment grant of KRW 500,000 if full-time employees are
hired through KB Good Job.

KB Hidden Star 500 Results
Classification

Unit

2011

2012

2013

Selected Companies

No. of companies

106

244

304

Financial Support

KRW 100 million

11,837

14,785

19,035

Foreign Exchange Support

USD 100 million

31

33

41

Equity investment

KRW 100 million

264

569

379

KB Business Matching Service

No. of companies

1

29

61

KB Wise Financial Consulting Support

No. of companies

7

13

9

Recruitment Support Through ‘KB Good Job’ No. of companies
KB Trade Business Academy Employee
Support / No. of Companies per Person

No. of companies
per person

12

26

13

0/0

55 / 90

57 / 110

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Other Financial Products for the Public Interest
Providing Opportunities to Invest in Infrastructure Projects l Through the Citizen Participation Fund
set up for investing in private investment projects, KB Kookmin Bank provides ordinary citizens with
opportunities to invest in infrastructure projects, which used to be offered only to institutional investors.
Since the fund is meant to be for the public interest, the company lowers service charges to the minimum
amount to increase return on investment.

Promoting Green Lifestyles l As an effort for environmental conservation, KB Kookmin Card released
the Green Growth Card and the Green Card, which were made using environmentally friendly materials.
The Green Growth and Green cards are encouraging people to incorporate environmental protection into
their daily lives by offering them green points (Eco Money) when they purchase energy-saving and green
products or use public transportation.

Creating a Culture of Social Donations l KB Kookmin Card released the ‘KB Kookmin Pointree Card’
through which credit card rewards are turned into donations to help socially disadvantaged groups.
Donations are raised by collecting KRW 1,000 from each member who has collected points. Then the
donations are sent to Good Neighbors, UNICEF, and Korea Social Investment at the end of the year.
Also, the company runs a ‘Donate Pointree’ program, which allows customers to donate the points
collected on their cards to desired NGOs through the KB Kookmin Card website. The program provides
an opportunity for customers to engage in social contribution activities.

Pursuing Win-Win Growth through Products l KB Kookmin Card strives for shared growth with smalland medium-sized business members. As for the Owners Club Card, the company offers up to 10% off
service charges for member businesses. The company also informs the businesses of certain items on
their credit card bills automatically classified as ‘VAT Refund Entitlement’, so that business owners can
predict the amount of VAT refunds they are due. Moreover, the company provides a wide array of benefits,
including automatic creation of VAT report files, electronic tax statements and receipt service. It also
provides its expertise in tax affairs/accounting and information about saving on taxes.
Overview of Major Sustainable Financial Products

*As of December 31, 2013 (Unit: KRW 100 million)

Product

Product Features

KB Keep Happiness Account

A demand deposit product exempt from garnishment of relief payments, basic old-age pensions, disability pensions, or
child disability allowances so that the account can be solely used to support living

Balance or Set Amount

KB National Happiness Savings

A plan that pays high interest rates to the socially disadvantaged, such as child heads of households, North Korean
defectors and relief recipients,

393

KB National Pension
Security Account

A plan devoted to prevent seizure by directing national pension payments towards basic life support and exempting all sorts of bank transaction fees

28

KB Army Preferential Savings Deposit

A savings deposit plan dedicated to those in the army who wish to save money during their service

KB Switch Dream Loan

A debt restructuring plan designed to swap high-interest loans for lower interest loans for disadvantaged groups

KB Low-Interest Loan for Youth and
College Student with High-Interest
Debts

A debt restructuring plan designed to change youth and college students’ high-interest loans from non-bank institutions to low-interest loans from established financial institutions through credit guarantees of the Credit Counseling & Recovery Service

KB Seeds of Hope Loan

A product with separate review criteria customized to low-income earners who have no access to bank loans

4,808

KB Green Growth Loan

KB Financial Group’s flagship green financial product that is designed to provide financing needed for green growth

7,945

KB Solar Biz Loan

A loan product designed to support the solar PV (photovoltaic) industry

KB Green Focus Fund

Portions of sales and operation charges saved to a fund, and donated to environmental agencies

Korean Peninsular BTL Fund

A collective investment vehicle that invests in BTL projects designed to improve sewer pipes

6,197

Love Your National BTL Fund

Investment in social infrastructure facilities

3,606

New and Renewable Energy Fund

A collective investment vehicle that invests in new and renewable energy businesses or assets

9

437
1,911
71

973
79

656

KB Kookmin Bank’s deposit and loan volumes: Demand + Savings Deposits: KRW 189,034 billion / Loans: KRW 187,202.1 billion

36

37

06
Customer
Satisfaction
Management

What ‘Customer Satisfaction’ means to KB

Rebuilding Trust
by Reaching
Customers on
a Personal Level

Scope of this Issue Customer satisfaction management serves as a platform for all business operations

In the financial business which is driven by customer relations, it is a very important strategy
to manage customer satisfaction. In order to re-establish trust in the wake of the recent
unfortunate events, KB Financial Group is doing everything it can to provide customers with
excellent, high-quality services and products. By reaching customers on a personal level, the
Group will rebuild trust and achieve sustainable growth.

at KB Financial Group, and all its subsidiaries are actively carrying it out.

Key Risks and Opportunities
To satisfy its customers, a company needs to analyze their needs accurately and follow
up by continuously providing appropriate services. Customer satisfaction (CS) activities
which lack planning can cost the company the trust of its customers and undermine
the company’s image. To accurately analyze its customers, KB Financial Group has
equipped itself with solid systems and processes. The Group incorporates analysis
results into its business strategies and regards customer satisfaction as an opportunity
for business success.

Our Approach to Customer Satisfaction Activities
KB Financial Group is an established total financial service provider which over 30
million people (more than half the entire Korean population) conduct transactions with.
The Group regards customer satisfaction as the foremost value of its corporate culture,
and works hard for the creation of customer value. Moreover, by providing the best
products and services, the Group is leading all people to a richer and happier tomorrow.

Details and Outcomes

Plans and Goals
•

Improving
Service Quality

•

Enforcing the Complaint Alert System

•

Operating customer panels

•

•

Ranked first place in CS surveys (NCSI, KCSI)

•

Launching electronic wallet application “KB Wise Wallet”
and app card “Kmotion”

•

•

Operating “After Bank” service that opens banks until 9 PM

•

•

Operating the Pop-up Branch to increase spatial accessibility

•

Operating stores specialized for dual-income married couples

•

Improving
Financial
Accessibility

Reaching 1st place in other customer satisfaction surveys
for several of consecutive years
Operating the KB tribunal system
Improving two-way communication with customers
through mobile and online devices

Expanding investment in strengthening mobile accessibility
Expanding operations by taking customers’ characteristics/
circumstances into account

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Customer Satisfaction
Management System

KB Financial Group is committed to rebuilding trust by strengthening customer satisfaction management
and holding the customer in high regard when serving them. First of all, the Group has raised employee
awareness of financial consumer protection and has improved its business processes. The Group also
enforces honest, uninterrupted two-way communication with customers and it is making efforts to
increase accessibility of its financial services.

Customer Satisfaction Management

Financial Consumer Protection
The Financial Consumer Protection Charter l KB Financial Group created the Financial Consumer
Protection Charter to introduce a new paradigm for shared growth with customers. The Financial
Consumer Protection Charter states the eight core values required to protect financial consumers based

Two-Way Customer
Communication

Extending
Customer-Centric
Services

on the general principles regarding financial consumer protection endorsed by the OECD. It mainly
deals with customer-centric righteous management, prevention of discrimination, transparency of
information, customer property protection, customer information protection, knowing your customer
(KYC), compensation and remedies, providing financial education and supporting disadvantaged groups.

Financial
Consumer
Protection

Strengthening
the CustomerCentric Management System

Each subsidiary designated the 21st day of each month as Financial Consumer Day, on which customer
suggestions are heard and complaints promptly resolved.

Operating a Financial Incident Prevention System l Under the Act concerning the Reporting and
Utilization of Particular Financial Transactions and Data, KB Financial Group strictly enforces the
Customer Due Diligence (CDD) process when carrying out transactions with customers and reports the
results to prevent incidents such as the creation of criminal accounts. Furthermore, the Group is faithfully
implementing Suspicious Transaction Reporting (STR) and Currency Transaction Reporting (CTR) through
its Compliance Support System.

Services for Safe Financial Transactions l To prevent internet-based financial fraud in electronic
banking and lay the foundation for secure transactions, KB Financial Group complies with the Financial
Supervisory Service’s Guidelines for Financial Fraud Prevention in Electronic Banking designed to prevent
fraud such as phishing 1) and pharming 2). In particular, the Group provides security services that help
1 ) Phishing: A scam to gain personal financial
information by sending out mass emails to random
people in order to lure them to a fake website.
2) Pharming: A compound word of phishing and
farming which describes a method of stealing
personal financial information through ‘internet
explorer favorites’ or portal websites from users by
planting malware in their computers.

distinguish phishing sites through an anti-phishing personalized image and green address bar.
KB Kookmin Bank offers the ‘Electronic Financial Fraud Prevention Service’ which is one of its voice
phishing prevention measures to protect financial consumers. In 2013, the company made it mandatory
to apply the service to all personal internet banking customers. Along with this, the company also
extended the SMS alert service to prevent financial fraud and strengthened its system designed to stop
payment to fraudulent loan accounts.

Information on KB Kookmin Bank’s Electronic Financial Fraud Prevention Service

What is the Electronic
Financial Fraud
Prevention Service?

Key Details of
the Electronic Financial Fraud
Prevention Service

Users of
KB Star Banking

The service aims to strengthen the identity verification process to prevent financial fraud in which
the attacker illegally obtains customer information
through voice phishing and phishing websites, gets
an authenticated certificate re-issued in the name of
that customer and then withdraws money from the
customer’s deposit accounts.

Effective from September 26, 2013, Thursday, making transactions able to
be performed only after the user goes through an additional authentication
process when having an authenticated certificate issued1) or when transferring an amount greater than KRW 1 million2).

Effective from September 26, 2013, users must
upgrade their service to a new version to carry out
transfers and must also be issued with authenticated certificates.

1) Issue (re-issue) of an authenticated certificate, registration of a certificate with
another bank/ institution.
2) Transactions in which the amount to be transferred exceeds KRW 1 million
through internet banking (based on a cumulative amount per user ID for internet
banking which includes smartphone banking).

*Users of the existing version can gain access to view
transactions only.
*New version: Android devices: G2.2.0 or higher; iOS
(iPhone, etc.): I2.2.0 or higher

38

39

Strengthening the Customer-Centric Management System
Reorganizing the System l To improve the poor process status of complaints, KB Kookmin Bank
promoted the Complaints Coordination Council to the ‘Financial Consumer Protection Department’ and
created the ‘Consumer Protection Division’ to strengthen its financial consumer protection system. KB
Kookmin Card also created the Customer Relations Management Team under the Consumer Protection
Division, and operates the ‘Financial Consumer Protection Council and the Consumer Compensation
Committee ’ to prevent complaints from occurring and ensure that complaints are fairly handled
and compensation is provided. Additionally, KB Investment & Securities and KB Asset Management
respectively operate a Financial Consumer Protection Council and have created a Financial Consumer
Team. The Group’s other subsidiaries also operate organizations dedicated to carrying out customercentric management activities.
Details of ‘Support the CS’ Training

Adapting Programs to Complete Satisfaction of the Customer l KB Kookmin Bank established
the Complaint Alert System, a type of crisis management system, to increase awareness of the risk

Morning Meeting
Business Etiquette

Support
The CS

Response by Customer Type
Emotional Communication
Stress Management, etc.

of complaints. The company also operates a consultant program dedicated to preventing customer
complaints in advance. KB Kookmin Card and KB Real Estate Trust conduct training on customer
relations, identify CS improvement tasks then put them into action; and also monitor improvement
among related teams and departments through customized ‘Support The CS’ programs and the ‘CS
Improvement Project ’ . KB Life Insurance operates customer-oriented services through emotional
communication with customers, including the ‘100th Day since Promise’ project by which the company
offers customers a message of appreciation for maintaining their policies one hundred days after they
signed up, and provides useful information about contracts for insurance products and the details
of coverage. Furthermore, the company provides customized services by analyzing the recordings of
customer consulting sessions.

Enhancing Customer Communication
Expanding Communication Channels for Customers l KB Kookmin Bank strives to enhance customer
communication through instant messaging, e-mail counseling and a dedicated hot line. The company
also runs social media accounts including its own blog, Facebook and Twitter accounts to promote twoway communication. KB Investment & Securities fortified the customer communication feature of its
Home Trading System (HTS). KB Data System and KB Capital also operate Customer Service message
boards on their websites.

Encouraging Customer Engagement l KB Kookmin Bank organizes customer panels to receive feedback
directly from customers regarding the bank’s major issues. In 2013, the company selected 6,842 customers
and held 8 meetings to collect customers’ opinions. Also, to identify the needs of foreign customers, the
company also ran the ‘KB Foreign Customer Advisory Panel' which consists of 200 customers from 27
countries including China, US, Japan, and Taiwan, and held four meetings. KB Investment & Securities
included customer feedback in the development of products and services. In 2013, the company included

192 customers’ opinions.

Extending Customer-Centric Smart Financial Services
Operating Customized Services l KB Kookmin Card launched ‘KB Wise Wallet’ for customers who
No. of Kmotion Members

1,675,263
No. of KB Wise Wallet Downloads

use smartphones to remove the inconvenience of carrying several cards such as credit/debit cards,
membership cards and coupons by allowing them to store them on their smartphones. The bank also
increased user convenience with the app card, ‘Kmotion’.
KB Investment & Securities opened ‘KB Smartok S' an application by which customers can carry out all

404,193

transactions on their smartphones and can also create their user IDs. The company also expanded the

*As of December 31, 2013

equity-linked securities (ELKS).

accessible financial product line to include all other products such as fund and bond transactions and

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Improving Accessibility to Customers l Since 2012, KB Financial Group has made improvements to
its services in compliance with the Korean Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (KWCAG) to allow all
customers easy access to member store websites and mobile apps. Consequently, the Group earned
a Web Accessibility (WA) Mark which is certification provided by the Human Rights Forum of Persons
with Disabilities in Korea, for the web-based services of its subsidiaries such as KB Kookmin Bank, KB
Investment & Securities and KB Life Insurance.
KB Kookmin Bank began operating ATMs featuring braille and voice guide features for the visually
impaired and ATMs that can be used by disabled persons who use wheelchairs. In 2013, the company
installed 1,023 new ATMs available to be used by persons with disabilities. Furthermore, the bank’s
‘Bankbook Braille Service’ enables bankbooks to display the account holder name, account number, bank

name and the telephone number of the in braille which is greatly helpful to visually impaired persons.
To increase convenience for foreign customers, KB Kookmin Card offers the ‘ Foreign Customer
Consulting Service’ which enables foreign customers to make inquiries, apply for card re-issuance and
report theft in English or Chinese..KB Life Insurance opened the cyber service system to speed up the
insurance payment process and facilitate accident insurance claims.

KB Kookmin Bank has ranked first place for eight consecutive years in the National Customer

Results of Customer
Satisfaction Activities

Satisfaction Index, surveyed by the Korea Productivity Center. KB Kookmin Card has also ranked first
place in the credit card category of the same survey for the past two years. In addition to this, KB
Kookmin Bank came in first place in the customer contact category of the Korea Service Quality Index
which is organized by Korea Management Association Consultants. Also, KB Life Insurance has been
selected as an Outstanding Call Center in the industry sector for nine consecutive years. KB Kookmin
Bank has also ranked first place in the banking sector of the Korean Customer Satisfaction Index for
seven years straight; and KB Kookmin Card ranked first place in the debit card category of the same
survey. In addition, KB Kookmin Card topped the ‘Companies Most Trusted by Consumers’ survey (Digital
Chosun Ilbo) and has received the Grand Prize for Customer Delight Management (Hankook Economic
Daily) for six consecutive years, proving that its practices for customer delight are widely recognized.
Ranked 1st in the National
Customer Satisfaction
Index(NCSI)for eight
consecutive years

Branch Ofﬁce Customer Satisfaction
Index Results (unit: points)

Ranked 1st in the Korean
Customer Satisfaction
Index(KCSI) for seven
consecutive years

Excellence grade in the
Korea Service Quality Index
for nine consecutive years

Moreover, KB Kookmin Bank conducts a Branch Office Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) to increase
customer trust and loyalty through customer-centric services. In 2013, the company overhauled and
re-designed its customer satisfaction system by creating the ‘Consumer Trust Index’ and the ‘Customer

2011

92.7

2012

93.8

company also provides service level survey results to individual employees, creating a customer service

2013

94.5

culture. The company also provides each employee with service level results, bringing a culture which

Relations Management Index’ to survey and evaluate satisfaction from a customer’s standpoint. The

allows for customer satisfaction management to become engrained within the company.

Future Plans

While carrying out its business operations, KB Financial Group always holds customer value as its
foremost priority. The Group will continue to provide innovative products and services developed with
the customer’s viewpoint in mind. All employees at KB Financial Group strive to do their very best while
aiming to create a great success story along with the customers.

40

Special Issue

Operating Customer
Relations-Centered
Branch Offices

41

Branch ofﬁces focusing on customer relations are customer-centric business
branches that fundamentally improve the branch model and increase accessibility.

‘After Bank’ - Improving Temporal Accessibility to Financial Transactions
‘After Bank’ is a new type of branch office where customers can conduct transactions until as late as 9

p.m. which is long after usual business hours. Operated near office buildings in major urban areas, these
branch offices have received positive reactions from customers such as full-time employees and dualincome married couples as they can access financial services after they finish work. There are a total of
five ‘After Banks’ in operation as of June, 2014.

‘Pop-up Branch’ - Improving Spatial Accessibility
The company operates ‘Pop-up Branches’ in areas lacking appropriate conditions for business operation
such as redevelopment zones. In areas where there are temporary increases in customers, the ‘KB Mobile
Star’ and ‘Mobile 365 Automation Branch’ are available to reduce inconvenience.

Enterprise-Linked Branch
Located in industrial complexes and areas with plenty of small and medium enterprises, this type of
branch office specializes in providing financial services to companies and employees. Employees with
a lot of experience in corporate finance are appointed to provide diverse solutions. The office also
features the CEO Community Lounge and the Enterprise Employee Lounge somewhere for employees of
enterprises to rest. There are a total of fourteen enterprise-linked branch offices as of June, 2014.

Branch for Dual-Income Couples
Unlike ordinary branches, this type of branch office hires retirement planning experts and provides a total
asset management service tailored to the needs of dual-income married couples. The office holds a range
of seminars for married couples including real estate, taxation and investment counseling. They are open
from 2 to 9 p.m. just like the After Banks. They are located in/near residential complexes which allows for
couples to access services after they finish work.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

07
Social
Contribution
Activities

What Does Social Contribution Mean to KB Financial Group?
Recently, social contribution (or CSR) activities have evolved into ‘Creating Shared
Value’ (CSV) through which, aside from contribution activities, a company’s business
operations can also resolve social problems and generate both profit and shared
value. The company can ensure sustainable management through strategic social
contribution activities which allow the company to utilize resources at its disposal and

Sharing Happiness
with Society

reflect the characteristics of its business.
Scope of this Issue KB Financial Group enthusiastically carries out social contribution
activities in which the holding company and its subsidiaries all participate to fulﬁll their social
responsibilities. Subsidiaries also independently organize their own CSR activities by linking
them to their businesses.

Key Risks and Opportunities
Crises and opportunities coexist in corporate social responsibility activities. Through
the performance of CSR activities, the company can build a positive image and gain
a competitive advantage. Through employee engagement, the company can also
boost employee morale. On the other hand, however, a piecemeal approach to social
contribution activities can only but tarnish a company’s image.

Our Approach to Social Contribution Activities
KB Financial Group conducts social contribution activities based on its business
strategy and the characteristics of finance. While group-wide activities are carried out
based on the Group’s nationwide network, there are also activities that reflect the
characteristics of each of its subsidiaries as well as activities aligned with the analyzed
needs of local communities. For these activities, the Group gathers feedback from
internal and external stakeholders and implements continuous management and
improvements.
Details and Outcomes
•

Hope and
Dream Together
(Youths)

•

•

Pleasure of
Serving Together
(Senior Citizens)

Sharing Love
Together
(Public Good)

•

Providing Economic and Financial Education to help school
students develop a proper perspective on the economy
- A total of 119,273 students received education via on-site,
invitational, camp, and online programs

Plans and Goals

•

Organizing social contribution projects to support the growth
of socially disadvantaged youths
Organizing social contribution projects to support
independence among senior citizens who are having
financial or emotional problems
- Providing basic necessities for the summer/winter, sharing
kimchi and briquettes, and free food rationing
Organizing social contribution projects to improve social
welfare and the environment
- Providing vehicles to social work facilities, creating a
carbon neutral forest, and providing disaster relief

•

•

Continuously providing ‘Economic and Financial
Education’ - the leading social contribution project
based on the characteristics of financial business
Focusing on social contribution activities that actually
contribute to society
- Organize leading projects exclusively for youths and
senior citizens-the core areas of KB’s social contribution
Revitalizing the KB Star Dream Volunteer Group and
making social contribution a part of corporate culture

42

KB Financial Group’s
Efforts for a More
Cooperative Tomorrow

43

KB Financial Group organizes and implements unique social contribution activities providing practical
help to people in general and also to socially disadvantaged groups in a timely manner - much like rain
falling at the right moment.

Vision and Strategies of Social Contribution
Intensive Support for Key Areas of Business l To help people better understand economics and
finance, KB Financial Group has selected ‘Economic and Financial Education’ as its leading project. In
addition, the Group designates projects geared towards youths and senior citizens as its key areas of
business and continues to identify and carry out major projects at the group level.

Practical Contribution to Community l Instead of taking a piecemeal approach, the Group has
consistently provided practical assistance and genuinely helpful activities for recipients. The Group also
conducts social contribution activities aligned with the needs of local communities and neighbors.

Making Social Contribution a Part of Corporate Culture l By making plans to encourage active
participation in and revitalize social contribution activities, and by building KB’s own systemic social
contribution model, the Group aims to establish social contribution as a major part of its corporate culture.

Social Contribution Framework

The Most Respected Corporate Citizen

Intensive Support for
Core Areas of Business

Practical Contribution to
Community

Making Social
Contribution a Part of
Corporate Culture

Beneﬁts for Youths and Senior Citizens
Group-wide Social Contribution Activities
Independent Social Contribution Activities at Each Subsidiary

Activity Performance of
KB Star Dream Volunteer Group
Average hours of participation per person
(unit: hour)

2011

KB Star Dream Volunteer Group l KB Financial Group operates the ‘KB Star Dream Volunteer Group’

5.9

where all employees participate to encourage dreams and bring hope to socially disadvantaged groups.

2012

13.8

2013

13.6

Annual cumulative number of volunteers
(unit: person)

2011
2012
2013

Social Contribution Organization

28,294
79,481
76,242

Theme Volunteer Group

Talent Dream
Volunteer Group

Speed Dream
Volunteer Group

Activities in respective key areas
(Youths, Senior Citizens, etc.)

Employees volunteer to
donate their talents

Providing speedy relief aid
for recovery from damage
caused by typhoons, floods
and other disasters

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Hope and Dream Together
(Youths)

KB Star Economic and Financial Education
KB Financial Group carries out social contribution activities for children and youths, who are our future
hope. Through ‘KB Star Economic and Financial Education’, which has served as the Group’s leading
social contribution project since 2012, the Group has contributed to improving understanding and
knowledge of economics and finance among youths.
Led by former and current employee volunteer groups and a college student volunteer group, KB Star
Economic and Financial Education consists of various programs, such as on-site, invitational, economic
and financial camps as well as online programs. The Group developed eight educational programs
featuring games related to finance that are fun and easy for all students, from elementary to high school.
The Group also provides on-site education with volunteers visiting schools and local child service centers.
The scale of recipients of education has been extended to various groups, including adults in their 20s
(those in military service and college students), middle-aged / senior citizens and housewives.

Youth Support Activities
KB Financial Group organizes the ‘KB Hope Camp’ which provides disabled young persons with work
experience, mentoring services and counseling with experts, and helps them explore career opportunities.
There is also the ‘KB Youth Music Contest’ which offers university-linked specialized music education to
disadvantaged youths with musical talents, and there is also the ‘Building a Dream Tree Village with Love’
event where employees accompany disadvantaged children to amusement parks to make happy memories
with them.
Activities conducted by KB Kookmin Bank include the ‘KB Kookmin Bank Small Library’, which helps
bridge the digital divide for disadvantaged youths, ‘KB Kookmin Bank Making a Place of Hope’, designed
to create learning spaces and ‘One-to-One Learning with College Student Mentors’. Meanwhile, through
the ‘Community Book Bundles Project’, KB Real Estate Trust purchases recommended books and donates
them to children and youths living in orphanages.
Results of Economic and Financial Education
Recipients of Ofﬂine Education
2012

44,952

(unit: person)

Website Visitors

+43,582

2013

On-site Economic and Financial Education

88,534

27,599

Total

+3,140

30,739

Website for Economic and Financial Education

72,551
119,273

44

The Joy of Serving Together
(Senior Citizens)

45

Activities to Support Independence of Senior Citizens
Strenuous efforts have been made by KB Financial Group to resolve problems among senior citizens arising
from Korea’s rapidly aging population. Through its activities - ‘Spending a Cool Summer with Senior Citizens’,
“Sharing a Warm Winter with Senior Citizens’ and ‘Sharing Kimchi and Briquettes with Love,” for senior

citizens having difficulties in the summer and winter seasons, the Group is contributing to improving welfare
for senior citizens.
KB Kookmin Card’s activities include ‘Bridging the Hearts of Senior Citizens Living Alone’ through which
the company provides basic necessities and someone to talk to as well as ‘Free Eye Exam Support’. KB Life
Insurance also focuses on diverse activities to contribute to the creation of a culture of respect for senior
citizens and improve senior welfare, such as ‘80th and 90th Birthday Parties’ and ‘Volunteering at Social
Work Facilities for Lonely Senior Citizens’.

Special Issue

Intensive Social
Contribution Period

KB Financial Group has an ‘Intensive Social Contribution Period ’ during which time employees at all
subsidiaries participate in volunteering activities. Through this program, the Group provides assistance to
those who need attention and help.

KB Finance Social Contribution Day

KB Finance Sharing a Warm Winter

At KB Financial Group, May is celebrated as the
‘Month of KB Financial Social Contribution'. During
which time all employees renew their dedication to
social contribution activities and share their sharing
experiences. Each year, about 25,000 employees from
respective subsidiaries carry out social contribution
activities in various areas of their local communities,
putting into practice the concept ‘bigger love’.

At KB Financial Group, the period from November
through December is called the period of ‘ KB
Finance Sharing a Warm Winter’ during which time
group-wide activities and independent activities
at respective subsidiaries are carried out together.
For the sharing of warmth and love with neighbors
in local communities, employees share kimchi,
briquettes, and basic necessities for the winter.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Sharing Love Together
(Public Good)

Activities for the Public Good
To improve the service quality of social work facilities, KB Financial Group provides about fifty vehicles
including passenger cars, vans, and wheelchair lift vehicles each year. The Group is also actively
involved in domestic and overseas disaster relief activities, including relief aid for the victims of the
earthquake in the Philippines. Through ‘KB Kookmin Bank Sharing Love with Traditional Markets ’, KB
Kookmin Bank works with Hunger Saver, an international relief organization, in purchasing foods and
necessities at thirty-three traditional markets and donating them to disadvantaged groups. The bank also
implements the activity ‘KB Place of Sharing Bread with Love’ where bread and noodles are offered to
underprivileged neighbors as meals or snacks. KB Capital forms a ‘One Company, One Village’ alliance
with farming villages to revitalize the rural economy by helping farmers during busy seasons.

Global Social Contribution Activities
KB Financial Group organizes global social contribution activities that can be conducted continuously.
Through the ‘Hope Bicycles’ project, the Group sent 3,000 bicycles to children in Vietnam and Cambodia.
Since 2007, KB Kookmin Bank has been dispatching an overseas volunteer group of students known as
‘RaonAtti’ to help youths in seven different countries including Cambodia, Thailand and the Philippines.

KB Investment & Securities has assisted in building elementary schools in Laos, followed by the village of
Chum Kiri in Cambodia, and has also provided decent educational facilities for children in impoverished
regions through on-site volunteering.

Number of Trees Planted in KB
Carbon Neutral Forest

11,000 trees

Approximately

Estimated Annual Carbon
Dioxide Reduction

460 tons

Environmental Preservation Activities
KB Financial Group has been dedicated to resolving global environmental issues which are becoming
increasingly more serious. In 2013 , the Group entered into a KB Carbon Neutral Forest Creation
Agreement with the Incheon Free Economic Zone Authority and began creating a carbon neutral forest.
The KB Carbon Neutral Forest was created to supply oxygen and absorb CO2 emissions. The Group has
planted about 11,000 trees, in accordance with the amount of CO2 emissions generated by companies
and individuals. The trees are expected to reduce 460 tons of carbon dioxide annually. KB Kookmin
Bank has been involved in the Eco Tree Campaign, which was launched in 2009 and spearheaded

*Participation in Carbon Disclosure Project
(CDP): Since 2009 , KB Kookmin Bank has
participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project
in which the company discloses its climate
change response capabilities and greenhouse
gas emissions.

Future Plans

environmental conservation through clean-up activities in local communities. Other subsidiaries like KB
Life Insurance, KB Asset Management, KB Investment, KB Data Systems and KB Savings Bank have also
conducted environmental preservation activities in Seoul Forest and Bukan Mountain, and have even
conducted clean-up activities in local communities.

As a leading financial group in Korea, KB Financial Group will play a leading role in fulfilling corporate
social responsibility and expand CSR practices to become the ‘most respected corporate citizen’ by
serving local communities. Through the ‘selection’ and ‘focus’ approach, the Group will concentrate
its social contribution capabilities on the Youth and Senior Citizen areas to build KB’s unique social
contribution model. The Group will also make sure that its social contribution activities contribute to the
creation of a healthy financial ecosystem.

46

47

List of KB Financial
Group’s Major Social
Contribution Activities

Sharing Love Together (Public Good)
· Providing vehicles to social work facilities
(KB Financial Group)
· KB Carbon Neutral Forest (KB Financial Group)
· Hope Box Volunteering (KB Kookmin Bank)
· KB Overseas Volunteer Group of College Students “RaonAtti” (KB Kookmin Bank)
· Providing KB Korean Language Classes in Yangon, Myanmar (KB Kookmin Bank)
· Place of Sharing Bread with Love
(KB Kookmin Bank)
· Overseas Rainbow Classes
(KB Investment & Securities)
· Environmental clean-up activities
(KB Life Insurance, KB Asset Management,
KB Investment, etc.)
· Planting trees of life (KB Life Insurance)

Hope and Dream Together
(Youths)

Joy of Serving Together
(Senior Citizen Welfare)

· KB Star Economic and Financial Education
(KB Financial Group)
· KB Youth Music Contest (KB Financial Group)
· KB Hope Camp (KB Financial Group)
· Medical Support for Disadvantaged Youths
(KB Financial Group)
· Building a Dream Tree Village with Love
(KB Financial Group)
· KB Hope Study Group (KB Kookmin Bank)
· KB Dajeong Dagam (KB Kookmin Bank)
· KB Small Library (KB Kookmin Bank)
· KB Happy Table (KB Kookmin Bank)
· Dream Day Camp ((KB Kookmin Card)
· KB Rainbow Class (KB Investment & Securities)

· Providing necessities for summer and winter
(KB Financial Group)
· Sharing kimchi and briquettes with love
(KB Financial Group)
· Taking longevity photos for the senior citizens
(KB Financial Group)
· Providing walking aids for the elderly
(KB Financial Group)
· Providing free meals for senior citizens in celebration of the Group’s anniversary (KB Financial Group)
· Happy Food Volunteering
(KB Investment & Securities)
· Volunteering at Social Work Facilities for Lonely
Seniors (KB Life Insurance)
· Picnic with the Elderly (KB Investment)

Performance by Companies
KB Financial Group is a total financial group which comprises KB Financial Group Inc. and its 11 subsidiaries, including KB Kookmin Bank and KB Kookmin Card.

01 KB Kookmin Bank

p50

03 KB Investment & Securities

02 KB Kookmin Card

p54

04 KB Life Insurance

p58

p56

05 KB Asset Management
06 KB Capital

p62

p60

07 KB Savings Bank

p64

08 KB Real Estate Trust

p66

09 KB Investment

11 KB Data Systems

p68

10 KB Credit Information

p70

p72

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

KB Kookmin Bank will continue to meet your expectations by becoming not just
a ‘Good Company’, but rather a ‘Great Company’.

CEO Kun-Ho Lee

KB Kookmin Bank Overview

I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all of you for your continued support and trust.
KB Kookmin Bank will become a leading bank that abides by the principle of customer-centered
management and provides all customers with personalized services through ‘ Finance with
Stories (Story Finance)’. With the management philosophy of ‘increasing the value of the bank to
customers rather than the value of customers to the bank’, the bank will create success stories with
its customers. KB Kookmin Bank will continue to pursue mutual prosperity among the company
and society, fulfill its social responsibilities for the future where everyone can dream, and will
also continue to stand by your side with approachable finance. KB Kookmin Bank will meet your
expectations by becoming a ‘great company’ rather than just a ‘good company’

Aiming to become a global bank leading the Asian financial industry, KB Kookmin Bank boasts the largest customer base, high customer satisfaction rate and efficient sales infrastructure such as a far-reaching channel network and brand power. The bank’s major areas include personal loans for individual and SOHO customers, corporate loan plans and an integrated fund management service. By offering an unparalleled PB service, a trust,
pension and fund management business and derivatives, the bank has been expanding its customer base and
increasing revenue. In addition, the bank has laid the foundation for future growth as it has become the first
bank in Korea to surpass the 8 million customer mark in smartphone banking.

Date of
Establishment

November 1, 2001

Head Office
Address

84, Namdaemun-ro,
Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea

Full-time
Executives

No. of Branches 1,219 (1,207 domestic and
12 overseas)
No. of
Customers

No. of Employees

21,715

Temporarily
Contracted
Male
Female

16,559
20
5,136
11,488
10,227

28,128,160
*All employment is based
on a full-day work system

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Global Bank Leading the Asian Financial Industry
Asia Top 10, Global Top 50
Delight for Customers

Strengthening core capabilities
based on customer value

Setting Management Priorities

Pursuing qualitative growth
based on soundness

Strengthening fundamental
capabilities for future
growth engines

Strengthening On-Site Sales Capability

Establishing KB’s
New Identity

Fair and Transparent Compensation System

50

Major Products and Services

51

KB Creative Banking Savings Deposit
KB Hi! Story Savings Deposit

Bancassurance

Selling insurance products on
behalf of insurance companies

Loans

KB Salary Transfer Credit Loan
Business Overdraft Loan

Asset
Management

KB Golden Life

Trust

KB Golden Life Pension
and Savings Trust

Investment
Finance

SOC Project Finance
M&A Finance

KB Gross & Value Securities
and Investment Trust

Derivatives

Currency derivative
Interest rate derivative
Stock derivative

Currency exchange/remittance, etc.

Electronic
Banking

Firm Banking,
Internet Banking

Deposits

Investment
Trust
Foreign
Exchange

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, as of: December 31, 2013,
Consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

Net Income

2,652,589

206,173

14,381

8,197

Major Awards
➊ Ranked 1st as the 2013 Best Trade Bank in Korea for two consecutive years

The Asian Banker

➋ Earned the Highest Grade in the 2013 Custody Service Survey for eight consecutive years Global Custodian
➌ Received the Web Award Korea 2013 in the banking category

Korea Internet
Professionals Association

for six consecutive years

By working with other subsidiaries, KB Kookmin Bank maximizes corporate synergy and strives to
provide customers with convenient and beneficial financial services. Furthermore, the company is
building a platform for sustainable growth by developing new business and solidifying existing business.

Collaboration for Improving Synergy among Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries including KB Kookmin Bank

are working together to profit from synergy through SOC projects, private finance (PF) development
projects, fund investments, and asset securitization. Additionally, the subsidiaries are recruiting new
customers and increasing sales through joint marketing.
Collaboration

Amount

Collaboration

Amount

Providing financial advice and arrangements
for the Gangneung coal-fire thermal power
generation project

Approximately KRW Collecting the balance
4 trillion
of ETF

KRW 645.8 billion

Refinancing the Eulsukdo Bridge

KRW 364 billion

2.07 million people

New Kookmin Card
Customers

Solidifying Mid to Long-term Revenue Base
Public Fund Custody
and Management

Retirement Product
Development

Expanding customer base by
selecting a custodian agency for
the National Housing Fund and
increasing sales of related products

Implementing the KB Golden
Life Banking service-the first
Korean Internet banking service
specialized for senior customers

Managing total asset value (NAV)
of about KRW 237 trillion in bond
assets by selecting a custodian
bank for the National Pension Fund

Providing customized products and services including the
KB Golden Life Testamentary
Trust, etc.

Enhancing
Corporate Finance
Operating total finance centers in major locations and
enterprise-linked branch
offices to strengthen corporate finance capabilities

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Sustainability Activities

Hiring Talent
In 2011, KB Kookmin Bank became the first bank in Korea to enter into a memorandum of understanding
with the Ministry of Education to hire graduates from specialized high schools. The bank is currently hiring
graduates from specialized high schools through referrals. In 2013, the bank selected 13 new employees
who graduated from specialized high schools. The company will provide a lot more opportunities by
expanding options of employment.
Furthermore, KB Kookmin Bank recruits foreign employees in speciality positions to strengthen its global
capabilities. Its twelve local branch offices, companies and offices worldwide separately employ talented
individuals suited to local business conditions. The bank launched the Internship Program in 2009 to fulfill
its social responsibility for youth unemployment and to secure top talent. In 2013, the bank hired about

300 college students for its winter and summer internships.

Talent Development
To fulfill the CEO’s management policy, ‘Finance with Stories (Story Finance) as a Leading Bank’, KB
Kookmin Bank is strengthening its consulting capabilities to analyze customers’ financial needs and offer
the best possible financial services. To develop growth engines to become a global bank leading the Asian
financial industry, the company established the ‘Four Talent Development Strategies’ to focus on long-term
talent development.
KB Kookmin Bank’s Four Talent Development Strategies are: (1) Developing job professionals who can
contribute to improving business performance; (2) Fostering top talent who will lead KB Kookmin Bank’s
sustainable growth; (3) Enforcing the sharing of organizational values to nurture loyalty and leadership at
different job positions; and (4) Establishing a proactive and habitual learning culture to encourage on-site
enhancement of job capabilities.

Developing Asia’s Best “KB People”
Strengthening
Job Capabilities
Enhancing job expertise that can contribute
to improving business
performance

Fostering
Top Talent
Retaining highly talented individuals who
will lead KB Kookmin
Bank’s long-term growth

Sharing
Organizational Values

Establishing a Habitual
Learning Culture

Strengthening loyalty
and leadership at different job positions

Improving on-site job
capabilities and building
infrastructure to support
self-directed learning

Support for Retired Employees
Korea’s aging population has led to growing interest in and the need for planning to live happily after
retirement. In 2014, KB Kookmin Bank will introduce related programs designed to help retired employees
to plan their lives after retirement through practical support, such as career development and useful
information.
Support Plans
Classification

Details

Setting up a dedicated team for tran- - Setting up a dedicated support team to help employees plan their second lives
sition support
after retirement in the vein of career development
Operating a training program for
transition support

-Reemployed Employee Program: Training in second life planning
(group training at HRD center)
-Retired Employee Program: Training in re-employment and business start-ups
(long-term outsourced training)

Operating other transition support
programs

-Holding franchise start-up presentations and providing jobs for re-employment
using the KB Good Job program
-Using information on various jobs from transition support service agencies

52

53

We will increase
the bank’s value for
customers,
rather than customer
value for the bank.

Special Issue

KB Story Finance

‘Story Finance’ represents the bank’s commitment to making success stories in which

customers and the bank grow together instead of approaching customers with short-term
profit plans.
Aim and Strategy of Story Finance
The concept of ‘Story Finance’ was created to propose an appropriate and beneficial product through
which the bank could get closer to customers instead of viewing them as a means of making profits.
The aim of Story Finance is to provide customers with necessary services and benefits in advance. The
strategy for promoting Story Finance includes developing related products and providing efficient
services based on customer-centric management, as well as making improvements to the performance
management system and the customer satisfaction index.

Activities to Promote Story Finance
In 2013, KB Kookmin Bank created the Story Finance Task Force (TF) under the CEO’s supervision. The TF
is responsible for overhauling and improving customer-related programs and processes. To establish a
culture where the process and customer value are considered more important than results, the company
developed a performance indicator centered on customer benefits and launched the ‘Self-check and
On-site Customer Satisfaction’ service in order to listen to the voice of the customer (VOC). Furthermore,
to provide efficient services, KB Kookmin Bank established an online banking center to make customer
services available online with the same service quality as branch offices. The company is also launching
various products aligned with customers’ stories.
Awards Received by KB Story Account (2013)

Major Products of Story Finance

Organization

KB Kookmin Bank strives to maintain long-lasting relationships with customers and offer them better
products by launching customer-centered package products that represent ‘Finance with Stories’.

Award

Maeil Economic 2013 Hit Product
Kyunghyang
News

2013 2nd Half Kyunghyang Hit Product

Seoul News

2013 2nd Half Hit Product

Kookmin Ilbo
News

2013 2nd Half Hit Product

Asia Today

2013 Best Brand

e-Today

2013 2nd Half Hit Product

KB Story Account l KB Story Account was designed to itemize various daily banking transactions and
increase benefits as the number of transactions grows. Aside from transactions, the plan offers fifteen
Story Points every time the customer goes through a life-changing event such as being accepted into
college, acquiring employment, getting married or buying a house.
KB Hi! Story Time Deposit and Savings Deposit l KB Hi! Story Time Deposit and Savings Deposit is a
bridge time deposit plan that provides retired customers with basic living support until they receive
pension benefits. The plan represents KB Kookmin Bank’s commitment to encounter (Hi) customers’
stories and share their success.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

We aim to become Korea’s best everyday service and solution provider
supporting the people’s lives

CEO Duk-Soo, Kim

KB Kookmin Card Overview

I would like to thank all of our customers for their continued support. Clearly understanding people’s
everyday lives, KB Kookmin Card suggests smart ways of consumption aligned with individual
lifestyles, and focuses on differentiating its services, emphasizing customer value as its top priority.
In addition, the company pursues shared growth and management of sharing by expanding areas of
social contribution. With more sophisticated and convenient services, the company will support the
people’s everyday lives and become a leader in the credit card industry contributing to the growth of
the financial market.

Founded in March, 2011 as a spin-off company from KB Kookmin Bank, KB Kookmin Card has implemented
sustainability management with the aim of becoming a ‘New Leader’ in the credit card market with its longterm customer relationships, highest customer satisfaction and innovative product development capabilities.
The company has launched credit, check and prepaid cards that meet customers’ needs, and has built cutting-edge payment infrastructure including an electric wallet called ‘KB-Wise Wallet,’ and the mobile app card
‘K-motion’ to increase customer convenience. KB Kookmin Card will enrich people’s lives and provide differenti-

ated services by developing various products that can create customer value.

Date of
Establishment

March 2, 2011

Head Office
Address

30, Saemunan-ro 3-gil,
Jongnogu, Seoul

No. of Branches

28 (25 domestic head offices
and branches, 3 overseas
offices)

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives

1,393

Temporarily
Contracted

1,348
14
31

Male
Female

792
601

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Korea’s Best Everyday Service and Solution Provider
Customer Value

Shareholder Value

Employee Value

Systemic Cost Management

Development of
Future Growth Engines

Optimization of
Risk Management

Strengthening Corporate
Social Responsibility

Strengthening management
by customer segment

Expanding the basis of future
revenue generation

Building a balanced risk
management system

Improving the company’s image
by practicing Win-Win growth
management

Concentrating internal capabilities
to improve performance and
profitability

Planning to make forays into
international markets
for sustainable growth

Maximizing return through
advanced late payment
management

Leading management
centered on protection
of customer rights

54

Major Products and Services

KB Kookmin
Hun-Min-JeongEum Card

55

In 2013, KB Kookmin Card launched the ‘KB Kookmin Hun-Min-Jeong-Eum Card’, a card
brand which uses the four Korean characters (훈민정음: Hun-Min-Jeong-Eum) which is the
title of the first ever document to be written in Hangul, the Korean alphabet, to categorize
different solutions to customer needs.

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

Net Income

Amount of Card Usage

158,555

34,699

5,038

3,844

876,928

Cards without facility (debit/check cards, prepaid cards) are excluded from the results.

Major Awards
➊ Received Gold Medal at the 4th Maeil Economic Financial product Award - KB Kookmin Haedam Card
➋ Ranked 1st as the Korea Service Quality Index (KS-SQI)

Maeil Economic

Korea Standards Association

➌ Named the ‘2013 Consumer Choice’ in the credit card category for 3 consecutive years

Chungang Ilbo

In 2013, KB Kookmin Card concentrated on strengthening its internal capabilities. To this end, the
company conducted business operations focusing on 6 areas including cost reduction, strengthening
customer relations management, strengthening business capabilities and risk management.
Systemic Cost Management
Improving costs by designing
optimized products
Enhancing marketing cost
effectiveness and management

Sustainability Activities

Development of Future
Growth Engines
Launching Kmotion and seeking a
competitive advantage in the market
Reviewing and implementing loans
to non-members

Solidifying Customer
Relations Management

Strengthening Key
Business Capabilities

Solidifying the foundation for
company-wide customer contact
management
Building a real-time marketing system

Improving non-price competitive
strengths by enhancing brand and
product competitiveness

Normalizing the Basis of Operations
Improving synergy between Bank and
Card subsidiaries, expanding the foundation centering on top-performing CP
Paving the way for a rebound by
launching the Again First campaign

Optimization of Risk Management
Strengthening monitoring by
sales asset
Enhancing capabilities of late
payment management

For effective marketing and proactive risk management, KB Kookmin Card
Talent Development
trained 148 professionals to have CRM and risk analysis capabilities through the professional training
programs. In addition, the company provided mandatory training programs at different job titles to
enhance employee expertise in the card business. In addition, through the long-term outsourced training
program, the company is developing financial/management experts.
KB Kookmin Card adopted eighteen hybrid vehicles (ten
Strengthening Environmental Management
in 2012, eight in 2013) to save energy and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Its efforts also include adopting
vehicles with high energy consumption efficiency when replacing used cars. Since 2012, the company has
extended the use of environmentally friendly recycled paper, and produced 190 types of materials such as card
statements, envelopes, member newsletters, notices and other documents using eco-friendly recycled paper.
By doing this, the company has saved 2,147MW of electricity and 10,496 tons of water. The company also
celebrates every third Wednesday of the month as its ‘Cost Savings in Daily Life Monitoring Day’ and distributed
‘Detailed Energy-Saving Practices’ to all employees as part of the company-wide energy-saving campaign.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

We are leading the Asian ﬁnancial industry beyond its leadership
in Korea as a total ﬁnancial investment company

CEO Hui-Dong, Chung

KB Investment & Securities Overview

KB Investment & Securities strives to become a trustworthy financial investment partner, which
considers customers’ successful investments and happiness as its foremost value. Through an organic
collaborative network with other subsidiaries, KB Investment & Securities provides more advanced
financial products and services, and makes every effort to protect customer assets through strict
internal controls and privacy protection. In addition, the company became the first in the industry to
develop MTS for smartphone use, and has provided convenient and diverse stock trade services to
customers. KB Investment & Securities will continue to share its growth with customers and become
a good example of a company that shares great relationships with communities.

KB Investment & Securities is a leader in the corporate bond/asset-backed securities market and in the real
estate project finance (PF) area. With advanced research capabilities, the company provides a variety of financial services to domestic and foreign investors. In addition, the company steadily generates revenue from stock,
bond and derivative products using a specialized system and investment techniques, along with its stock and
derivative trading brokerage services for foreigners in and outside Korea and Koreans living abroad. In 2013,
despite the poor profitability of the security business, KB Investment & Securities struggled to promote the interests of financial consumers through its customer-first policy and tightened internal controls. In 2016, under the
strategic direction, ‘Establishing a position as a total financial investment company,’ the company will cement
its position as a major business line within the Group by consolidating the capabilities of its key business areas
and by developing its weak business areas.
Date of
Establishment

August 16, 1995
(Acquired on March 11, 2008)

Head Office
Address

23rd floor, Shinhan Investment Corp., Yeoeui Avenue,
Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives
Temporarily
Contracted

468

No. of Branches 11 domestic head and
branch offices

Male
Female

410
10
48
295
173

Management Framework and Business Strategy
Becoming a Financial Partner that Brings Customers Happiness and Trust by Remembering that All Thoughts and Actions are
Customer-Oriented and by Recognizing that the Customer’s Success means the Company’s Success

Korea’s Best Everyday Service and Solution Provider

Building Advanced Infrastructure

Strengthening Key
Capabilities

Enhancing Sales Capabilities
in Weak Areas

Enhancing the capability of
developing financial products

Strengthening key capabilities
in the wholesale sector

Expanding the basis of
retail operations (customers)

Advancing the management and
support sectors

Improving profitability in operations
with institutions

Improving the revenue structures of
complex branch offices
Strengthening the financing capabilities of
new market development projects

56

Major Products and Services

57

Corporate - Corporate finance services through acquisition of stock/bonds
Finance - PF structuring and arrangements, structuring product development, etc.
Sale &
Trading

- Generating steady revenue using advanced financial investment techniques
- Providing customized products for personal and corporate customers, such as ELS and ELW

Corporate - Providing financial services to domestic and foreign institutional investors
Sales
- Providing accurate and various investment information through its connections to research centers.
Retail
Research

- Providing securities, domestic and foreign derivatives, FX margin trading services, etc.
- Selling financial investment products and providing the Wealth Management service
- Providing in-depth investment information by quickly gaining information and accurately analyzing it

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

Net Income

25,244

5,507

96

54

Assets under Management

125,742

(Stock + bonds + beneficiary certificates)

Major Awards
➊ Received an award in the Issue of Bond at the 4th Korea IB Awards

Hankook Economic Daily

➋ Received an award in the securities MTS category at the 2013 Korea’s Most Beloved Brand Awards

Chosun Biz

➌ Received an award in the social contribution category at the 2013 Korea Top Brand Awards

Dong-A Ilbo

Despite the tough time when stock prices declined and competition intensified due to the decreased profitability
of the securities industry, KB Investment & Securities continues its efforts to overcome crises by strengthening its
capabilities in the wholesale sector, one of its strongest areas, and by diversifying revenue sources.

Strengthening Key Capabilities in Wholesale Business

The company topped the corporate bond/ABS
performance for three consecutive years since 2011 (17.9% market share based on the 2013 Bloomberg
League Table) by increasing its market share. In addition, the company increased its share in the market of
stock brokerage for institutional and corporate clients, cementing its leadership in the industry.

Sustainability Activities

Strengthening a Culture of Employee Communication

KB Investment & Securities implements a
variety of welfare policies to increase employee satisfaction at work. As part of its ‘Intimacy’ management
activities, the CEO holds meetings with employees at the head and branch offices and shares ideas about
making the company a better workplace. Furthermore, the company also strives to protect employee rights
by, for instance, operating a variety of child care support programs like reducing working hours for postnatal employees for maternity protection. Moreover, the company created a monthly briefing broadcast
to share the company’s performance and issues with employees through the CEO’s own voice. Monthly
Briefing is an official broadcasting channel through which the CEO directly informs employees of the
company’s performance for the previous month and its issues and plans. Sharing the company’s operating
status with all employees helps to improve their autonomy and their sense of community. In the autumn,
the company also held the ‘mountain hiking together’ event.

Enhancing Online Customer Service

Most investors invest in stock or fund online or through mobile
devices instead of traditional methods. Therefore, web-based, HTS (Home Trading System), and MTS (Mobile
Trading System) need to be provided for users’ convenience, and a variety of content needs to be offered to
assist customers in making investment decisions. In 2013, KB Investment & Securities made improvements
to its website and strengthened its premium service capabilities by opening the ‘Star Camp,’ a premium
service package with real-time broadcasting and a dedicated website. The company will add specialized
services and partnership services and develop them into leading personalized services.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

We aim to become a life insurance company with a solid footing that
pursues shared growth and customer happiness.

CEO Jin-Hong Kim

KB Life Insurance Overview

Under its new vision, ‘ Life Partner with No. 1 Customer Trust,’ KB Life Insurance implements the
following four management strategies to become a life insurance company with solid footing
through change and innovation: ‘ Improving customer value and trust,’ ‘ Strengthening sales
capabilities,’ ‘ Expanding a long-term, stable revenue base,’ and ‘ Laying the foundation for riskbased qualitative growth.’ KB Life Insurance will increase the value of customers’ lives and become
an honest life insurance company that stays with customers through their entire lifecycle.

Since its founding in 2004, KB Life Insurance has provided the best financial services that meet customer needs
through diversified sales channels, such as corporate agencies, telemarketing, and financial consultants, as well
as bancassurance. Despite the tough conditions of the insurance industry, in 2013, the company reached KRW

15,300 billion in existing insurance amount and KRW 6,900 billion in total assets, laying the foundation for
sustainable growth shared with customers.

Date of
Establishment

April 29, 2004

Head Office
Address

2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5h and 8th
floors, Samgu Buildng, 40,
Cheongpa-ro,Yongsan-gu,
Seoul

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives
Temporarily
Contracted

297

Male
Female

No. of Branches 33 domestic head offices and
branches

268
9
20
175
122

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Life Partner with No. 1 Customer Trust
Becoming the 10th Largest Life Insurance Company through Change and Innovation

Improving Customer
Value and Trust

Strengthening Sales
Capabilities

- Providing products and services
based on customer needs

- Solidifying and specializing sales
channels

- Improving customer-centric
business processes and
infrastructure

- Increasing market power
through diversification of
partnership channels

- Strengthening social
responsibility practices

- Expanding new growth engines,
e.g. online

Expanding a Long-term,
Stable Revenue Base

Laying the Foundation
for Risk-based Qualitative Growth

- Establishing a profitability
management system which
includes target profit management

- Internalizing the company-wide
risk management system and
strengthening internal controls

- Increasing sales of high-value products
to increase new contract value

- Improving synergy-producing
connections within the group and
brand awareness

- Building a stable basis for profit by
strengthening the asset management
function

- Increasing management efficiency by
improving capabilities of employees

58

Major Products and Services

Pension
Insurance

*KB 100 Years Old Pension Insurance
*KB Wise 100 Years Old Pension Insurance
*KB Golden Life Platinum Pension
Insurance II and four other products

Variable
Life
Insurance

*KB Star Dream Tree Variable Universal
Insurance III
*KB Star Variable Pension Insurance II
*KB Golden Life ELS Variable Insurance
and four other products

Health/
Injury
Insurance

*KB National Cancer Insurance
*KB National Injury Insurance
*KB National Medical Indemnity Insurance (Renewed)
*KB National Child Love Insurance, and one other product

Savings
Insurance

59

*KB Wise Large-Amount Savings Insurance
*KB Large-Amount Savings Insurance
*KB Power Plus Savings Insurance

Permanent/ *KB Term Life Insurance
Term Life *KB National Retirement Permanent Life
Insurance
Insurance and four other products
*Non-Participating

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

Net Income

69,456

5,491

-31

91

Major Awards
➊ Earned an Excellent grade in Financial Supervisory Service’s Evaluation

Financial Supervisory Service

of Occurrence of Civil Complaints
➋ Outstanding Call Center in Korea Service Quality Index (KSQI)

Korea Management Association

for nine consecutive years

To respond more efficiently to risks that may occur, KB Life Insurance overhauled its product and
investment risk management system. The company created the appropriate RBC (Risk-Based Capital)
and equity cost management system, strengthened its sales capabilities for security insurance, and
worked hard to improve stability and productivity to become a sustainable company. In addition,
to maximize its profits, the company consolidated its high-profit product line and expanded sales.
Moreover, the company diversified asset management to increase margins.

Sustainability Activities

Consumer Protection

KB Life Insurance appoints the Chief Consumer Officer among its executive
officers under the CEO’ s supervision, who is responsible for independent and practical consumer
protection operations. The company also set up a Consumer Protection Team which is a department
dedicated to overseeing consumer protection. In addition, for systemic consumer protection operations,
the company created the Financial Consumer Protection Regulations, detailed rules, guidelines and
manual. In 2013, focusing on the four key areas of strengthening compliance and establishing a
culture of compliance, reducing legal risks, establishing a personal information protection system
and establishing a consumer protection system, the company adopted the overseas account taxation
compliance law and incorporated this into its in-house rules - a review of the consumer protection
aspect of product development and marketing materials. In 2014, the company plans on focusing on
fundamental cause analysis and improvements, with the aim of reduce complaints.

2014 Detailed Direction for Consumer Protection
Implementing
an action plan to
reduce complaints
(Financial Supervisory Service)

Increasing the ratio of
complaints in the evaluations of executives,
team managers and
branch managers (KPI)

Strengthening
measures for
branches
with excessive
complaints

Making
improvements
to the complaint
coordination
system

Operating
complaint
prevention training
courses regularly

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

KB Asset Management primarily aims to increase the long-term income of assets.

CEO Hui-Kwon, Lee

KB Asset Management Overview

Thanks to the continued trust and support of the customers, KB Asset Management, a total
asset management company, continues to grow despite unfavorable business conditions. The
company took a leadership position in the long-term fund market where it devotes its management
capabilities. In the alternative investment sector, with years of management experience and
expertise, the company manages a variety of domestic and international infrastructure funds which
are worth KRW 5 trillion, including capital restructuring, power generation project and energy
projects. To ensure the stable management of customers’ valuable assets, the company abides by
the long-term investment principles, strengthens its internal controls, and implements systemic and
analytical risk management. In August 2013, among its sustainable efforts, the company formed its
Financial Consumer Team to protect investors.

A total asset management company, KB Asset Management manages assets worth KRW 3,305.1 billion across
various areas, such as stocks, bonds, raw materials, SOC and real estate. In the most competitive area of domestic stock fund, the company provides the KB Value Focus Fund* (KRW 2,505 billion, 124.29%), KB Growth
Focus Fund* (KRW 220.1 billion, 347.46%), KB Small and Medium Stock Focus Fund* (KRW 618.1 billion,

53.52%) and the KB Retirement Pension Dividend 40 Fund* (KRW 582.4 billion,104.24%). Based on the consistent, long-term performance of the domestic stock fund products, the company took a leadership position in
the long-term fund market (Retirement Pension Fund, Personal Pension Savings Fund, Income Deduction LongTerm Fund, etc.) where it devotes its management capabilities. Additionally, the company presents most suitable investment portfolios to investors by offering appropriate funds for the market conditions, such as the Long
Shot Fund and Overseas Index Fund.

Date of
Establishment

April 28, 1988

Head Office
Address

25th floor, Shinhan Financial
Investment Building, Yeoeui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu,
Seoul

No. of Branches

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives
Temporarily
Contracted

153

Male
Female

1 domestic head office

Management Framework and Business Strategy

- Achieving 2nd place in in stock-oriented M/S
- Maintaining a high ranking in long-term
management income
- Increasing the 3-channel trust deposits

Increasing
Stock-based
Trust Deposits

- Building an early alert system
- Strengthening the management system by
developing computerized infrastructure

Strengthening
Risk Management

Expanding
Alternative
Investments

- Maintaining a leading position in the
SOC market
- Increasing the trust deposits of stable
real estate funds

Expanding
the Passive
Asset Bas

- Increasing the size of the index funds
(including ETF)

148
5
0
110
43

60

Major Products and Services

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

61

KB Value Focus Fund
(stock)

Long-term investment in stocks that are undervalued relative to corporate value, earning powers value or blue-chip business models.

KB Korea Representative
Conglomerates Fund (stock)

Selective investment in large conglomerates with global competitiveness or companies owning the world’s best-selling products

KB SME Focus Fund
(stock)

Concentrated investment in strong SME’s with high growth potential
and stable profit generation.

KB Retirement Pension Dividend
40 Fund (mixed with bonds)

Pursuing both stable return on investment from bonds and additional
income from rising stock prices or dividends

KB Growth Focus Fund
(stock)

Selective investment on companies with high sales/profit growth
potential, adapting to changing industrial and business enviornments

KB Star Korea Index
(stock – derivative)

Index fund following KOSPI200, a leading Korean stock index, aimed
at following market performance

KB Dividend Focus Fund
(stock)

Pursuing both equity income and dividend income using dividend
stock premium

KB Korea Long Shot Fund
(mixed with stock)

Pursuing an annual 7% income through bond investment + long-shot
domestic stock strategy

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

2,379

2,016

498

Net Income

Assets under Management

634

333,051

(discretionary investment included)

Major Awards
➊ Top Excellence Award in the domestic stock (growth) category at the 4th Asia Fund Awards

Sustainability Activities

Asia Economic

➋ The Asset Management Company of the Year at Korea Awards 2013

Asia Investor

➌ Best Pension Fund and Best ETF at 2013 Money Today Fund Awards

Money Today

Operating a System (NFMS) for Strict Internal Controls

KB Asset Management places great

emphasis on the transparency of management processes through strict internal controls. To this end, KB Asset
Management operates the NFMS (New Fund Management System) to conduct advance/follow-up monitoring.

Advance Monitoring l Through the NFMS, fund managers can perform simulations to find out whether
the management results are in violation of laws or trust agreements before selling assets. That way,
the managers can prevent unforeseen risks as well. In addition, the Compliance Office conducts daily
monitoring and notifies the fund manager if the management level reaches the alert level (90%).

Follow-up Monitoring l Through the NFMS, follow-up monitoring is conducted on violating items.
In addition, the status of asset allocation is monitored to prevent unfair allocation to certain funds. The
company also has an itemized monitoring system for every abnormal deal, and makes sure that the fund
manager reports the reason for such a deal to root out any unfair trading practice.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

KB Capital is a specialized credit ﬁnancial company with proﬁtability, stability,
and growth potential.

CEO Jeong-Sik, Oh

Despite domestic and international financial conditions with continuing slow growth, the company
has grown solid assets by increasing blue-chip assets, then to maintaining a top integrity index
through a proactive risk management system, which takes account of external conditions and
competition, KB Capital has achieved unprecedented growth in the industry This would have been
impossible without the employees’ commitment to creating new value for our customers’ support
and trust. KB Capital will have sealed its leadership position in the existing key business areas and
continue to develop growth engines for the future. Additionally, all employees will continuously
work together towards the common goal but also to fulfill corporate social responsibilities. Your
continued support will be appreciated.

KB Capital is a specialized credit financial company which engages in installment loans, lease, personal and

KB Capital Overview

corporate credit and mortgage loans. KB Capital became the first company to successfully deploy a credit loan
model linked to banks. Using such expertise and its exclusive review system, the company provides fast and
low-interest credit loan services through about 1,200 branches of KB Kookmin Bank, shifting the paradigm of
the credit loan business.
Despite intense competition and the slowdown of car sales, KB Capital boasts a high annual growth rate in the

10%’s, a stable asset portfolio centering on sound automobile finance assets (representing 80%), low procurement cost based on a higher credit rating (AA-) than competitors,and the highest level of asset soundness in
the industry. The company ranks 5th place in total assets and 6th place in income among sixty-seven specialized
credit companies.
Date of
Establishment

September 11, 1989

Head Office
Address

295, Hyowon-ro, Paldal-gu,
Suwon, Gyeonggi-do (Ingyedong)

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives
Temporarily
Contracted

432

No. of Branches 20

Male
Female

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Becoming a Key Non-Bank Subsidiary within the Group
Reaching No. 1 Non-Exclusive Specialized Loan Service Provider through Business Diversification

Securing a Competitive
Advantage for Key Businesses

Unrivalled Growth
Within the Group

Future Growth Engines,
New Markets, New Businesses

Upgrading Support
Capabilities

284
8
140
310
122

62

Major Products and Services

Automobile Finance
- New Car Finance
- Used Car Finance -Direct Finance
- Commercial Vehicle Finance
- Car Rental Finance

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

Personal Finance
- Credit Loans - Mortgage Loans
- Stock Loans
- Hire-Purchase Plan for Durable Goods

63

Corporate Finance
- Real Estate Loans
- Mortgage Loans
- Lease

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

39,399

4,123

1,979

Net Income

Credit Status

541

38,949

With the recent adoption of regulations to strengthen risk management in the financial industry, credit
financial companies’ criteria for supervising soundness, capital adequacy and liquidity have become
tighter, and financial consumer protection has become more important. To proactively respond to
these changes, KB Capital created a dedicated system and management framework for top-performing
debt collection to prevent any complaints arising from the debt collection process. Also, the company
spearheads efforts to protect consumers’ rights by forming a dedicated financial consumer protection
division and establishing a financial consumer protection system.

Reaching
KRW 54.1 Billion
in Net Income

Sustainability Activities

Securing
Blue-Chip
Credit

Early
Settlement
in New
Businesses

Operating the Ombudsman Process

Dominating
the Market
by Increasing
Affiliated Stores

Strengthening
Risk and Bond
Capabilities

Proactive
Fraud Prevention
Blue-Chip
Customers

To resolve employee grievances, KB Capital organized and

began to operate the Ombudsman Committee. Employees who file grievances will have an interview
with members of the Committee to find a solution, while the committee members prepare consulting
reports and keep track of the results. If the grievance cannot be resolved through an interview with the
Committee, the company helps find a more fundamental solution through cooperation with the HR
division. Additionally, the company operates a reporting (Sinmungo) program on its groupware, through
which grievances can be directly communicated to the CEO.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

KB Savings Bank aims to create customer value by increasing the value of low-income
groups and small and medium enterprises, setting an example for the industry.

CEO Sun-Gwan, Cha

KB Savings Bank appreciates the support of all of its customers. At KB Savings Bank, all employees
are making strenuous efforts to provide low-income groups with financial support. In January 2014,
through the merger with Yehansol Savings Bank, KB Savings Bank was reorganized. To fulfill its
social responsibilities as a financial institution, the company aims to set an example for the savings
bank industry by strengthening ethical management based on ethics and public interest. KB Savings
Bank will continue to grow into a blue-chip savings bank through stable financial support for lowincome groups and financial relationships with local SMEs based on its far-reaching financial
network and sound asset management.

To provide stable financial support for low-income groups, KB Savings Bank was created in January, 2012,

KB Savings Bank Overview

through the acquisition of Cheil Savings Bank. The company strives to become a blue-chip savings bank contributing to stable financing for low-income people by drawing upon the largest financial network in Korea and
sound asset management. To this end, the company developed an optimum portfolio centering on retail banking and created a ‘Clean Bank,’ realizing a stable revenue stream through maximized organizational efficiency
and productivity.

Date of
Establishment

January 2, 2012
(Acquired January 4, 2012)

Head Office
Address

260, Songpa-daero, Songpa-gu, Seoul

No. of Branches

6 domestic head and branch
offices

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives
Temporarily
Contracted

99

Male
Female

91
6
2
72
27

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Leading Savings Bank Providing Stable Financial Support to Low-Income People

Creating Clean Bank
by improving asset soundness

Optimum portfolio centering
on retail banking

Realizing a stable revenue stream through
maximized organizational efficiency
and productivity

Reinforcing efforts to increase
the collection of non-performing assets

Revitalizing the operations of providing
financial support to low-income groups

Maximizing integrated synergy

64

Major Products and Services
KB Good Loan

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

65

Launched in 2013, the KB Good Loan is a small credit loan designed to fulfill social responsibilities and provide low-income people with financial support. Through KB Good Loan,
low-income earners, who have difficulty accessing ordinary bank services, can have the
opportunity for financial independence, and the company works hard to reduce the burden
of high interest rates and eliminate the negative effects of illegal private loans. Employees,
small business owners, freelancers, pension recipients and clients with a salary less than
KRW 12 million are entitled to loan benefits, and the borrowing limit is about KRW 5 million.

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

5,776

1,303

-79

Net Income

Assets under Management

-93

4,826

Major Awards
Won the Grand Prize in reliable management category of 2013 Ajou
Economic Finance and Securities

Ajou Economic

In 2013, to revitalize financing for low-income earners, KB Savings Bank launched KB Good Loan
and extended the sales channels for Sunshine Loan. In addition, the company worked to streamline
the management of its branches and build IT infrastructure to enhance its business capabilities, and
continues to implement human resources capability development activities.

Sustainability Activities

Talent Development
Job Mandatory Program

Job Elective Program

Job Professional Program

Training aimed at providing
basic job knowledge that
employees need to know at
respective positions

Training including credit
due diligence analysis, AFPK, and CFP to
strengthen job capabilities

Helping attendees to obtain
publicly recognized certificates to meet self-development needs and develop their
capabilities

Educational and Training Costs Support

KB Savings Bank provides 50% of the costs required for

each employee to improve presentation skills and obtain publicly recognized certificates within the limits
of KRW 500,000 per year. In addition, depending on the level of difficulty, the company divides support
into Groups A, B, and C and covers the amount of assistance in obtaining certificates accordingly.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

KB Real Estate Trust is an institution specializing in real estate trust services
that increase the values of customers’ real estates.

CEO In-Byeong, Park

KB Real Estate Trust Overview

As a member of KB Financial Group, KB Real Estate Trust strives to achieve continuous growth
through righteous management and business diversification, become a stable financial company
despite market uncertainties and above all, become a company that customers can trust. To cater
to customers’ needs, KB Real Estate Trust is developing new business areas based on its knowledge
on real estate-related laws and programs, including the Trust Act. With an ethical mindset and
integrity, all employees at KB Real Estate Trust are committed to building a company that puts
customer satisfaction first, fulfills its social responsibilities and achieves healthier growth.

KB Real Estate Trust provides custody services for customers’ real estate to efficiently manage their properties
and return profits to them. The company consists of a group of experts responsible for real estate development,
management, disposal and REIT services. To ensure stable business operations and consumer protection, the
company is reinforcing risk management, management efficiency and ethical management, and holds the largest amount of trust deposits in the industry.

Date of
Establishment

December 3, 1996

Head Office
Address

15/16th floors, Samwon
Tower, 124, Tehran-ro,
Gangnam-gu, Seoul

No. of Branches

3 domestic head and branch
offices

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives
Temporarily
Contracted

142

Male
Female

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Korea’s Best Real Estate Trust Company

Aiming for the Best

Strengthening
Market Power

Leading the Market

Business
Diversiﬁcation

Improving
Management Efﬁciency

Total Real Estate Service

Maximizing Synergy
Within the Group

130
4
8
124
18

66

Major Products and Services

67

Land Trust

Through this product, the customer (project executor) can be given custody of land
from the land owner, constructs and sells a building on the entrusted real estate and
distributes development profits to the beneficiary

Collateral
Trust

Through this fixed-rate collateral mortgage substitute product, the customer can transfer ownership of real estate to a trust company to take out a loan from a bank by setting up the property as collateral, then offering a beneficiary right certificate issued by
the trust company to the bank as collateral and then taking out a loan. Due to its lower
cost than fixed-rate collateral mortgage and the fact that the customer ’s third party
creditor cannot force the trusted property to be executed, the product provides high
stability and is widely used for development projects.

Asset Management
Company (AMC)

Responsible for the creation of a real estate investment firm (REIT) and management of
its assets under the Real Estate Investment Company Act. By raising funds from investors, the product distributes the return on investment in real estate.

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

Net Income

1,827

1,690

46

21

Major Awards
➊ CP Credit Rating of A2+

Korea Investors Service

➋ Credit Rating of AAA

Korea Housing Guarantee

Expanding Business Areas and Diversifying Profits

In 2013, to proactively respond to market
trends, the company built a foundation for sustainable growth through the diversification of its business
into REITs and consulting. As part of its efforts, the company successfully launched the KB Wise-Star No.
6 REITs and won the contract for Songdo RC-4 Block from the Incheon Urban Corporation to participate
in an apartment complex development project. Then the company established and financed Songdo Best
Town PFV and sought to diversify revenue resources by financing the PFV for port redevelopment and
industrial complex development.

Sustainability Activities

Talent Development

KB Real Estate Trust has diversified its training programs to strengthen expertise. For
employees to become real estate experts, the company provides outsourced training to foster professionals,
customized training at different positions and group training programs. Additionally, the company implemented
a book exchange program through the book relay campaign, creating a culture of reading within the company.

Strengthening Risk Management

For proactive risk management, KB Real Estate Trust continuously
makes improvements to risk-related programs. In 2013, the company created a process related to
setting individual limits, such as a lease land trust project, strengthened risk management by setting up
a re-deliberation process for long-term unclaimed business sites after they were approved for custodian
service, and overhauled its risk management system by reinforcing the operational risk management
method. In 2014, the company plans on carrying out a variety of activities to establish a proactive risk
management system by defining ‘strengthening risk management’ as one of its strategic tasks.
Classification

Recipients

Manager and Aspiring Manager Program (Professional
program)

Executive officers,
department managers, team managers

Major Training Programs
- CEO program, professional training program, forums, etc.

Core Professional Program and Team managers,
- Certification acquisition program - Advanced program for
Major Job-specific Professional deputy managers and - Professional program
communication training at
Program (Advanced and
managers
Korea Banking Institute
Professional programs)
Major Job-specific Professional Managers, assisProgram and Practical Program tant managers and
(General programs)
employees

- Practical programs for services - Beginners program for
communication training at
Korea Banking Institute

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

We aim to become an investment ﬁrm that creates great and innovative companies,
rather than merely good companies.

CEO In, Nam

KB Investment Overview

With the best employees in the industry and distinguished capabilities, KB Investment is leading the
domestic venture investment and private equity (PE) investment industry. In the venture area, the
firm helps companies strengthen capabilities and grow by providing a comprehensive management
support business. By developing new growth businesses and creating new jobs, the firm also takes
the lead in realizing the ‘creative economy.’ In the PE area, the company is dedicated to improving
investors’ value through management buyout investment and various growth capital investments,
including support for SMEs and strong medium enterprises to grow together and make forays into
international markets. As Korea’s leading investment firm, KB Investment will use its best efforts to
become an investment partner who shares growth with investment companies.

Founded in 1990, KB Investment is mainly responsible for ‘Venture Investment’ intended for domestic and
foreign unlisted small- and medium-sized venture firms, ‘Growth Capital Investment’ to support solid medium-sized companies, and ‘Buyout Investment’ for corporate management. KB Investment increases investment
companies’ corporate value by providing a comprehensive management support service that companies need,
including HR and marketing, as well as Equity Investment aimed at helping venture firms grow into medium-sized companies. In addition, KB Investment invested KRW 130.6 billion in equity capital, KRW 1,450 billion in assets under management (AUM), and an average of KRW 100 billion each year (as of the end of 2013),
and has become a top-tier investment firm in the AUM, investment, and return on investment (Exit) areas, leading the domestic venture capital and private equity market. Since its founding, the firm has invested in about

700 companies and listed over 100 companies, fulfilling its role as an investment partner that helps small and
medium venture firms grow.

Date of
Establishment

March 27, 1990

Head Office
Address

9th floor, Shinyoung Building, 731, Yeongdong Ave.,
Gangnam-gu, Seoul

No. of Employees

Executives
Temporarily
Contracted

35

No. of Branches 1 domestic head office
No. of
Customers

Full-time

Male
Female

139

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Becoming a Top-Tier Management Company in Venture and PE Investments
On-site Management

Balanced Management

Value Management

Risk Management through Systemic
Diversiﬁed Investment Strategy

Increasing Return on Investment
through Company Selection

Top-down Allocation (Strategy research-based)

Bottom-up Selection (Portfolio company research-based)

Strategy of creating a portfolio based on models such as
macroeconomic changes, industry and business growth trends.

Strategy of creating a portfolio based on the corporate
characteristics, growth stage, and financial characteristics of
investment companies

31
3
1
29
6

68

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

2,412

1,306

Net Income

Assets under Management

61

14,500

69

Operating Income

73

Major Awards
Received a plaque of appreciation in the job creation category

Korea Financial Corporation (KoFC)

Improving financial performance by expanding a revenue base

By increasing the amount of assets
under management to KRW 1,450 billion, the company increased profits from management and maintenance by
24% compared to the 2012 figures. In addition, the company strengthens its due diligence for new investment
companies and major companies under management to prevent poor performance of investment companies.

Strengthening market leadership in key businesses and a potential revenue base

The company
invested KRW 46.7 billion in ventures and SMEs in the mobile IT and future growth engine industries. Also,
the company invested KRW 60 billion by expanding PEF investment for the growth of medium companies.

Enhancing human resource capabilities and organizational efficiency

As the assets under
management and investment assets increased, the efficient operation of the organization became more
important. The company made adjustments to an amount of investment per investment expert and the
number of companies under management. Also, the company reinforced organizational efficiency through
staffing and streamlining processes. In addition, the company strives to enhance investment experts’
expertise in foreign investment and human resources capabilities through financial and accounting
training for investment company’s due diligence officers.

Sustainability Activities

Supporting Ventures and SMEs through Aggressive Investment

KB Investment identifies
companies with outstanding technologies or ideas and seeks to make a profit through investment.
However, instead of merely going after profits, the company provides management and financial
support to ventures and SMEs in order to fulfill its duty as a corporate citizen and contribute to the
national industry’s growth. In 2014, the company plans to set up a fund worth about KRW 150 billion.

Approach to Risk Management
2014 Goals
-Set up a venture association to support
venture and SMEs (KRW 50 billion)
-Set up a new PEF to support investment in SMEs
and strong medium companies (KRW 100 billion)
-Invest in venture and SMEs through the
venture fund and unique account financing
(KRW 55 billion)
-Invest in SMEs and medium companies through
PEF (Private Equity Fund) (KRW 200 billion)

Different from bank loans, investment in venture capital carries
high risk and high return. Therefore, to continuously fulfill the role of venture capital in executing
investment finance for SMEs and venture firms, systemic risk management is required, which
encompasses proactive identification of and response to risks.
Credit Risk l Investment decisions are made by the preliminary review committee and the investment
deliberation committee. Once investment has been made, the results are regularly monitored through
half-year follow-up reports and other frequent reporting.
Market Risk l To manage risks arising from market price fluctuations in investment assets, the
company conducts daily and monthly monitoring and checks whether the risk limits before investment
are exceeded. If the loss limit is exceeded, the company immediately liquidates and sells the assets,
and if the company deems it appropriate to retain them, it defers the decision made by the investment
deliberation committee.
Liquidity Risk l To manage liquidity risks that may arise from excess amounts of investment in
companies or associations, the company keeps track of earnings and expenses for annual, quarterly,
monthly investments and fund financing. The company will strengthen pre-investment due diligence
with the help of an external accounting firm, and build a process of independence assurance of due
diligence reports by the risk management division.

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

KB Credit Information is a total credit information company leading the industry
with its scientiﬁc and organized debt management system and distinguished expertise.

CEO Yoo-Hwan, Chang

With top-notch professionals, KB Credit Information quickly and effectively manages non-performing
loans through an advanced debt analysis and management system and quality management system.
These activities serve to ensure smooth financial transactions and establish the proper function of a
‘credit society.’ In addition, through a scientific and organized debt management system, the company
suggests an appropriate repayment method aligned with the characteristics of debtors to help them
restore credit. As the industry’s leader, the company ensures the highest level of safety and growth
potential using its unparalleled expertise and core internal capabilities. As a subsidiary of KB Financial
Group, KB Credit Information fulfills its duties as a credit information company and is committed
to improving asset soundness, reducing reputation risks and pursuing customer delight as well as
customer satisfaction.

Founded in 1999, KB Credit Information is a total credit information company with high stability and growth

KB Credit Information Overview

potential as well as a scientific and organized quality management system. As the No.1 Total Credit Information
Company pursuing 'Services for Market trust and Customer satisfaction', KB Credit Information aims to solidify
partnerships among the Group’s subsidiaries, strengthen the capabilities of debt management companies and
enhance the efficiency of organizational and HR management by maximizing the ratio of debts collected within
the Group. In addition, the company will promote profit-oriented management streamlining to revitalize lowcost and high-return businesses and improve business processes through strengthened on-site IT.

Date of
Establishment

October 9, 1991

Head Office
Address

22nd/23rd floors, Gateway
Tower, 107, Huam-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives

No. of Branches

Temporarily
Contracted

148

Male

24 (20 domestic head/branch
offices, 4 domestic branch offices)

Female

111
3
34
111
37

Management Framework and Business Strategy

KB Credit Information as No.1 Total Credit Information Company pursuing
'Services for Market trust and Customer satisfaction'
Laying a Stable Platform for Growth by Improving
the Percentage of Collection

Maximizing debt collection within the Group
Strengthening partnerships between subsidiaries

Increasing Value within the Group by Securing and Implementing
Mid- and Long-term Growth Engines

Increasing productivity
by strengthening sales capabilities

Promoting profit-oriented
management streamlining

Strengthening the capabilities of
debt management companies

Revitalizing low-cost and
high-return businesses

Enhancing the efficiency of organizational
and HR management

Improving business processes through
strengthened on-site IT.

70

Major Business Areas

71

Debt Collection

Demanding and collecting repayments of debts from creditors on their behalf

Lease Investigations

On-site investigation, relocation investigation, investigation of work completed,
unimproved property investigation, price investigation, and commercial complex
lease investigation

Asset Management
Company

Custody services for management of assets held as collateral

Credit Investigations

Conducting a preliminary credit investigation of delinquent borrowers (personal
and corporate) and conducting a property investigation to secure debts before
and after lawsuits.

Agency Service

Issuing materials for research (certified copy of building registration, resident
registration abstract) for approved purposes and acting on behalf regarding debt
collection and credit investigations based on the clients’ needs.

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31,
2013, Consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

Net Income

301

224

5

-3

Maximizing Debt Collection Performance within the Group

By reinforcing inter-Group
partnerships and implementing joint promotions with KB Kookmin Bank and KB Kookmin Card, the
company was able to increase the amount of collection. In addition, the company committed itself to
customer relations management by publishing a debt collection results report. During the 2nd half of

2013,the company achieved KRW 257.7 billion - a 19.6% increase from the 1st-half figure - and a
collection rate of 3.83%.

Increasing Productivity by Strengthening Sales Capabilities

Through debt analysis, the company

created a management system by the period of late payment and by region. The company also worked
hard to streamline business processes by the period of late payment and optimize the company under
management. Additionally, it created a debt trend analysis system to make the best use of maximizing data.

Proﬁt-Oriented Streamlining Management

Efforts were made to revitalize low-cost, high-return

businesses. Through collateral debt collection, the company posted KRW 181.1 billion in revenue and
recruited 218 new clients through sales revitalization outside the Group, such as including the operation
of a lease investigation sales operation.

Sustainability Activities

Complaint Prevention Activities

Since KB Credit Information deals with debts, a lot of complaints

can occur easily. Therefore, to reduce complaints, the company operates a triple management system
with a dedicated team for complaint management, business operaing team, and the complaints officer
of each sales office. Also, the company is committed to reducing complaints by train branch offices on
how to prevent complaints and illegal debt collection. In 2013, as the National Happiness Fund was set
up, it became difficult for the company to collect debts (debtors try to escape their situation), however,
the company is now showing a tendency to decrease complaints as a result of the company-wide
complaint reduction efforts.

Number of Complaints for the Year (unit: case)

94

2012
2013

75

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

KB Data Systems aims to become Korea’s top IT service designer.
As a leading IT financial company in Korea, KB Data Systems realizes customer satisfaction by
providing the best IT quality and services. Furthermore, the company continuously researches and
develops financial IT technologies and keeps them up to date, contributing to the advancement
of the Korean financial industry. As a leading IT financial company in Korea, KB Data Systems
realizes customer satisfaction by providing the best IT quality and services. Furthermore, the
company continuously researches and develops financial IT technologies and keeps them up to
date, contributing to the advancement of the Korean financial industry. As the IT services center
of KB Financial Group that provdes efficient IT for financial firms, the company will help the
Group to become a global financial group leading the Asian financial industry. By maintaining
an attitude based on the fundamentals and principles, all employees at KB Data Systems will
make a concerted effort to fulfill corporate social responsibilities as a member of society, while
strengthening financial IT capabilities and pursuing shared growth with business partners.

CEO Joong-Won, Park

KB Data Systems is a professional financial SI company engaging in the development of IT projects, operation

KB Data Systems Overview

of systems, sale of financial IT solution packages and resale of IT hardware equipment. The company adheres to
the principles of customer trust, value on talent, creative innovation and righteous management, and develops
efficient IT for other subsidiaries. With plenty of experience and outstanding technology, the company provides
ideal solutions to cope with the complex and diverse changes in the financial environment. Also, through stable
IT systems maintenance and management, the company provides advanced IT services that cater to customers’
business needs.
Date of
Establishment

September 6, 1991

Head Office
Address

14th Floor, Jaram Building,
Police Mutual Aid Association,
78, Mapo-daero, Mapo-gu,
Seoul (566, Dahwa-dong)

No. of Employees

Full-time
Executives

No. of Branches

190

Temporarily
Contracted
Male
Female

1 domestic head office

176
4
10
156
34

Management Framework and Business Strategy

Korea’s Top IT Service Designer
Deliver Customer Delight
with Best Quality and Service

Secure Top Talent with
Expertise and Commitment

Leading Change through
Creativity and Innovation

Pursuing Righteous Mindset
and Actions

Expanding IT Operations Services

Selection and Focus of SI Business

IT Service Support for New Growth Areas

Expanding SM services for KB Kookmin Bank
and KB Kookmin Card

Selection and focus on Group’s common IT
businesses and the company’s strong areas

Gradually expanding IT operations services
to non-bank subsidiaries
(Securities, Life Insurance, etc.)

Promoting international sales of
the company’s solutions

Strengthening IT support for subsidiaries with
high growth potential such as Securities
and Life Insurance
Expanding IT services to new technology areas
such as big data and social media

72

Major Products and Services

Investment Preference
Classiﬁcation and
Consulting Solution
Efficiently supporting the operations
of companies selling
financial investment
product

An optimal business
integration solution that quickly and
seamlessly adapts to
changes in the business environment.

e-HRS (New
Human Resources
System)
Supporting flexibly to changes in
HR management,
management
strategy, and HR
strategy

i-mats (Business
Integration Solution)

K-Framework
Platform for processing financial
services

73

ALM (Assets and
Liabilities Management) System

ATLAS (Overseas
Banking System)

PDT (Parallel Data
Transfer) Solution

Measuring interest
rate and liquidity risks

Automatical accounting linked
process for deposits, lends,
foreign currency, exports and
imports transactions processes deposits, lends, applies
foreign currency exchange,,
exports and imports transactions in links with accounting.

Supporting fundamental reductions in
mass data transfer
time

Credit Card
System

Integrated Information System

System for processing credit
card-related
operations

Improving capabilities of financial
institutions, such
as banks, securities, and insurance

AML (AntiMoney Laundering) System

TAIS (Total
Assessment Information System)

Efficiently
detecting and
blocking money
laundering practices

Providing data
related to assessment in real time

Business Performance
(Unit: KRW 100 million, Date: December 31, 2013,
consolidated statements)

Total Assets

Equity

Operating Income

Net Income

217

148

-2

0.1

Major Awards
Won the Best Project prizes in two categories at Asian Banker Awards 2013

Sustainability Activities

Efforts to Increase Productivity

Asian Banker Award

Unlike other subsidiaries, which provide profit-oriented financial

services, KB Data Systems supports the business of other subsidiaries through KB’s Group-wide IT
services. KB Data Systems’ business performance goals are aligned with the company’s aforementioned
purpose and commitment, based on the company’s scope of business engagement or the level of
application by employees, instead of per capita sales or per capital income. In 2013, KB Data Systems
defined the rate of capacity utilization as an internal KPI (key performance index). Based on the index,
the company monitors individual IT employees’ capacity utilization and collects the results and ensures
efficient business operations. Consequently, the company reached 89.33% of capacity utilization, which
is higher than the target (87.39%) that the company set when developing the 2013 management plan.
In 2014, the company is striving to increase efficiency at work aiming for 90.51% of capacity utilization.

Appendix
KB Financial Group Sustainability Activity Data

75

Assurance Statement

78

GRI G4 Content Index

80

74

75

KB Financial Group Sustainability Activity Data
Social Performance
Training Hours and Investment Amounts
To accomplish the vision of ‘Global Financial Group Leading the Asian Financial Industry,’ excellent human resources are most important. KB Financial
Group develops financial professionals equipped with professional job capabilities, loyalty, and leadership, by hiring top talent and implementing a
human resources development policy based on a systemic road map.
2011
Subsidiary

2013

2012

Total Training Hours Total Training Cost Total Training Hours Total Training Cost Total Training Hours Total Training Cost

KB Kookmin Bank

4,029,973

24,929

3,581,808

23,527

2,698,207

20,866

KB Kookmin Card

72,906

1,008

118,812

1,427

119,437

1,399

2,221

123

6,684

322

3,460

83

13,780

207

15,231

176

12,952

141

KB Asset Management

1,810

38.4

2,358

38.7

2,362

37.8

KB Capital

4,235

96

1,138

18

678

10

-

-

4,500

85

3,600

79

7,120

78

11,620

64

10,009

41

286

32

324

55

436

35

KB Credit Information

3,476

26

6,705

15

6,660

27

KB Data Systems

9,131

130

15,802

193

23,986

371

4,144,938

26,667.4

3,764,982

25,920.7

2,881,787

23,089.8

KB Investment & Securities
KB Life Insurance

KB Savings Bank
KB Real Estate Trust
KB Investment

Total

(Unit: Hour, KRW million)

Ratio of Members of the Trade Union
KB Financial Group pursues the mutual interests of labor and management and implements a wide range of activities to create a healthy labor-management culture. KB Kookmin Card’s labor and management in particular held a charity concert for children with cancer at Olleh Square Dream Hall
in Gwanghwa-mun, Seoul, in January. The proceeds from the concert, KB Kookmin Card’s employees’ contributions and donations raised by KB Kookmin Card through a matching grant were sent to the Korea Childhood Leukemia Foundation to help children with cancer.

Subsidiary

2011

2012

2013

KB Kookmin Bank

92.0

92.5

93.2

KB Kookmin Card

90.2

92.5

94.3

KB Capital

90.8

94.1

92.4

KB Real Estate Trust

78.4

79.5

78.3

*The scope of collective bargaining includes all employees except executive officers and contract positions. (Unit: %)

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Human Rights Training
In many cases, incidents associated with human rights occur inadvertently, while the perpetrators are not even aware of it. KB Financial Group provides anti-sexual harassment and etiquette training to prevent such incidents to protect the human rights of employees.
2011

2012

2013

25,747

25,566

29,574

24,110

24,180

24,240

Total Training Hours (hour)

139

737

401

No. of Attendees (person)

139

737

Classification
Anti-sexual Harassment Total Training Hours (hour)
Training
No. of Attendees (person)
Other

259
(Scope of report: All subsidiaries)

Number of Online Users (KB Kookmin Bank)
KB Kookmin Bank continuously works hard to improve UI/UX for the website and mobile apps to increase the convenience of online users.
2011

2012

2013

Internet Banking

15,026

16,632

18,058

Mobile Banking

4,150

4,116

3,929

Smartphone Banking

2,200

5,461

8,002

Phone Banking

4,607

4,766

4,870

Classification

(Unit: person)

Supply Chain
KB Financial Group’s major supply chain includes the Call Center and IT development and maintenance companies. Through management of the
working environment and human rights of the Call Center, KB Financial Group is working to make the center the starting point of customer satisfaction and a happy workplace. With IT business partners, the Group strengthens internal controls with regards to security issues and provides ethics and
related training.

Membership in Related Organizations
Organization

Purpose

Korea Federation of Banks

To promote the growth of the financial industry through collaboration among institutions and improvement of banking services

Federation of Korean Industries

To consolidate a bond with various circles of society and create a healthy economic society

Korea Employers Federation

To settle peace in the industry and economic development by establishing reasonable labor-management relations

Korea Financial Investment Association

To keep business order among members, establish fair transactions, protect investors and contribute to the growth of
the financial investment industry

Korea Trade Association

To promote trade, implement private commercial collaborative activities and build trade infrastructure

Korea Management Association

To contribute to the growth of the nation’s economy and to the self-actualization of the people by leading industrial
society with its knowledge

76

77

KB Financial Group Sustainability Activity Data
Environmental Performance
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Resource Consumption
KB Financial Group strives to preserve the environment and reduce resource use and greenhouse gas emissions for society’s sustainable growth.
Since 2010, KB Kookmin Bank has operated the KB-GEMS, which measures, manages and monitors quantitative data of the bank’s GHG emissions
and energy use. The bank identifies risks based on estimated data and incorporates it into its sustainability strategy and implementation plan. KB
Kookmin Bank has had six large-sized buildings be certified with ISO 140001. Each year, it conducts third-party assurance of GHG emissions and discloses its results. In 2013, the company implemented the computer DB and electronic payment service for closed account forms* and issued about
five million ‘paperless’ forms. Consequently, the company could save about KRW 50 million each year. To minimize environmental impacts, the company also carries out a variety of energy- and resource-saving activities.
*Closed account forms: Account settlement form, account aggregate form, comprehensive account statement, automated machine (ATM) account settlement form, automated machine
(ATM) account closing form, foreign currency cash account records.

2011

2012

2013

Classification

Unit

Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions

tCO2e

18,365

18,167

18,078

Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions

tCO2e

112,922

111,476

114,668

Energy Consumption

MWh

689,407

721,789

741,137

Water Use

k㎥

164.167

180.300

157.251

Paper Use

Box

113,135

113,280

110,151

Total Business Trip Distance

km

1,863,314

2,275,734

2,347,831

*The data scope of greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption is applied to the entire Group (excluding KB Capital). *The data scope of water use is applied to six head office
buildings of KB Kookmin Bank. *The paper used refers to A4-sized paper and one box contains 2,500 sheets. *The data scope of the total business trip distance pertains to KB Kookmin
Bank and the amount of expenses related to business trips was converted into distance (KRW1,000 1.34km). *Gas emissions and energy consumption of the subsidiaries, not including
those of the bank, were calculated based on the data of KB Kookmin Bank in accordance with the estimation logic per unit of area as recognized by the Ministry of Environment.

Energy Consumption by Source (KB Kookmin Bank)
KB Kookmin Bank selects one hundred branch offices and conducts ‘Environmental Remodeling’ each year. The company uses eco-friendly building
materials and invests heavily in the adoption of LEDs, automatic light sensors, and power-saving outlets. Furthermore, to reduce costs and GHG emissions, the company supplied low-carbon, high-efficiency heater fuels to HRD centers where large-scale heating and hot water supply are required. As
a leading bank, KB Kookmin Bank implements exemplary environmental management by gradually changing cars into hybrid vehicles.
Classification

Energy Source

2011

2012

2013

Direct
Consumption
(Scope 1)

Diesel

30.55

17.87

5.66

106.9

114.22

126.34

14.63

19.1

15.78

136.12

134.7

128.8

12.03

13.85

11.81

Buildings LNG
Other
Vehicles

Gasoline
Other

Subtotal
Indirect
Consumption
(Scope 2)

Buildings
Subtotal

Total

Electricity
Steam

300.22

299.75

288.39

2,165.40

2,287.45

2,237.87

16.7

11.7

11.81

2,182.09

2,299.16

2,249.67

2,482.31

2,598.91

2,538.06
(Unit: TJ)

Waste (Landﬁll)
Classification

2011

2012

2013

KB Kookmin Bank

3,400

3,990

4,490

KB Kookmin Card

166

212

215
(Unit: L)

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

Third Party’s Assurance Statement
To the Readers of KB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2013:
Foreword
Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) has been requested by KB Financial Group to verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2013 (the Report). KB Financial Group is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. Our
responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below.

Scope and standard
KB Financial Group describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate level of
assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. The scope of verification was as below where professional judgement of the practitioner
of KMAR’s assurance team was exercised as materiality criteria.
• Adherence to AA1000APS Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness
• Reliability of data as follows:
- Energy consumption
- GHG emissions
- Water usage
- Waste
- Ratio of online users
The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4 which covers the followings.
• Reporting Principles
• General Standard Disclosures
• Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures
- Generic DMA of each of following material aspects
- Economic Performance: EC1, EC2
- Local Communities: SO1, FS13
- Anti- Corruption: SO4
- Compliance: SO8
- Product and Service Labeling: PR5
- Marketing Communication: PR7
- Customer Privacy: PR8
- Product Portfolio: FS7, FS8

Our approach
In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, KMAR’s assurance
team visited the KB Financial Group’s headquarter, and carried out an assurance engagement as follows:
• Reviewed overall report
• Reviewed materiality test process and methodology
• Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets
• Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities
• Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report

78

79

Our conclusion
Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KB Financial Group on the revision
of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been
reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification
scope are not presented appropriately.
• Inclusivity
Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability.
- KB Financial Group is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure.
• Materiality
Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that
will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders.
- KB Financial Group is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process.
• Responsiveness
Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions,
actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders.
- The assurance team could not find any evidence that KB Financial Group’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report.
We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4.

Recommendation for improvement
We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements.
• KB Financial Group should consider developing sustainability related targets and making the performance management system more systematic.

Our independence
With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other KB Financial Group business operations that are
aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence.

23, July 2014
CEO Ki Ho Park

000-129

2013 KB Financial Group Sustainability Report

GRI G4 Content Index
General Standard Disclosures

page

Strategy and Analysis
G4-1

Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability.

2, 3

Organizational Proﬁle
G4-3

Report the name of the organization.

4

G4-4

Report the primary brands, products, and services.

4

G4-5

Report the location of the organization’s headquarters.

7

G4-6

Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has
significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report.

5

G4-7

Report the nature of ownership and legal form.

4, 5

G4-8

Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries).

4, 5

G4-9

Report the scale of the organization.

G4-10

Report the structure of employees in the organisation.

G4-11

Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.

G4-12

Describe the organization’s supply chain.

G4-13

Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain.

G4-14

Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.

G4-15

List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.

G4-16

List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in
which the organization.

4, 5
50, 54, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64, 66,
68, 70, 72
75
76
4, 5
76
33, 34, 38, 46
76

Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17

List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Report whether any entity
included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report.

5

G4-18

Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries, and how the organization has implemented
the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content.

10, 11

G4-19

List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content.

G4-20

For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization.

14, 18, 23, 28, 32, 37, 42

G4-21

For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization.

14, 18, 23, 28, 32, 37, 42

G4-22

Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements.

G4-23

Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries.

10, 11

No restatements made.

5

Stakeholoder Engagement
G4-24

Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.

9

G4-25

Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.

9

G4-26

Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder
group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.

9

G4-27

Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those
key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.

10, 11

Report Proﬁle
G4-28

Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided.

Front cover

G4-29

Date of most recent previous report (if any).

Front cover

G4-30

Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial).

Front cover

G4-31

Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.

Back cover

G4-32

Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, the GRI Content Index for the chosen option, and the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured.

80, 81

G4-33

Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report, the scope and basis of any external assurance
provided (if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report), the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers, and whether the highestgovernance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report.

Front cover

80

General Standard Disclosures

81

page

Governance
G4-34

6, 7

Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body.
Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts.

Ethics and Integrity
G4-56

19, 20

Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics.

Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures

page

Customer Privacy
G4-PR8

14, 15

Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data

Anti-Corruption
G4-SO4

20, 21

Communication and training on anti corruption policies and procedures

Compliance
G4-SO8

Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non monetary sanctions for non compliance with laws and regulations

ⓐ

Economic Performance
G4-EC1

Direct value generated and distributed

G4-EC2

Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change

9
34, 77

Marketing Communication
G4-PR7

Total number of incidents of non compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications,
including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes

Cannot be disclosed.

Product Portfolio
G4-FS7

Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose.

34, 36

G4-FS8

Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by
purpose.

34, 36

Product and Service Labeling
G4-PR5

Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.

40

Local Communities
G4-SO1

Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,impact assessments, and development programs

G4 FS13

Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type

ⓐ In February 2014, KB Kookmin Card was held liable for the customer data breach incidents and subjected to a penalty and suspension of operations for three months.

44~47
41

2013 KB Financial Group
Sustainability Report

www.kbfg.com
You can download the PDF version of the Report from the
KB Financial Group website. If you have any comments or
questions about KB Financial Group’s sustainability management or this Report, please contact us at:

84, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seul (150-868)
Telephone: +82-2-2073-7822
Fax: +82-2-2073-0639

The Report was printed using soybean oil ink and environmentally
friendly paper certified with the FSC mark.
*FSC: A mark granted by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) to products
made from wood pulp taken from environmentally sustainable forests.

