What it means
to act like a duck
2 0 1 3 C o r p o r a t e C i t i ze n s h i p Re p o r t

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Letter From Chairman and CEO Dan Amos ......... 2
Duck Governance ............................................. 3
What the Duck Means to our Customers ............. 4
What the Duck Means to our Shareholders ......... 6
What the Duck Means to our Employees ............. 9
What the Duck Means to our Communities ....... 14
What the Duck Means to our Environment ......... 20
What the Duck Means in Japan ........................ 26
Duck Honors ................................................... 30

The data in this report includes some information collected in 2014

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Ci tizenship Report

Letter from Chairman and CEO Dan Amos
For three years our Corporate Citizenship Report has invoked the theme “Act Like a Duck.” To the uninitiated that
seems silly, but to those familiar with Aflac, “acting like a duck” is another way of capturing our corporate culture,
focusing attention on doing things the Aflac way. In fact, The Aflac Way is the title of the book that we hand to every
new employee when he or she first comes through our doors – enabling them to become better acquainted with our
commitment to ethics and to each other. It means something to do things the Aflac way.
This is my 24th year as CEO of Aflac. I’ve enjoyed a front row seat to
the vast growth of our company, growth that has transformed us into
an international household name. In fact, over this near quarter century,
our annual revenues have grown from less than $3 billion to more than
$25 billion. In the U.S., we employ nearly 5,000 people, while 70,000
independent sales agents sell our products. We are large in stature, but
have never lost sight of what got us here: our people and our culture.
Our workforce is as diverse as it is proud. Today, roughly 70 percent
of our staff are women. More than 40 percent are minority. This
inclusiveness has helped make us one of FORTUNE’s Best Companies
to Work For an astounding 16 consecutive years.
Our commitment to community runs deep, whether it’s highlighted by
our devotion to sustainability, or to helping children battle cancer and
other blood disorders like sickle cell. In 2013, we surpassed $87 million
in contributions to the Aflac Cancer Center, which serves children
who are fighting dreadful diseases. We are proud that many of these
funds are generated by our independent sales agents, who voluntarily
donate an eye-popping $425,000 each month from their commission
checks. In Japan, we support the Aflac Parents House program where
pediatric patients and their families lodge during their treatments. We also
contribute to the Gold Ribbon Campaign, raising awareness and funds
to fight pediatric cancer in Japan.
So what does it mean to act like a duck? Well, I think it means that you
behave in ways that land you on Ethisphere’s list of World’s Most Ethical
Companies for eight straight years. It means annual recognition from
Latina Style and Black Enterprise magazines. It means inclusion on
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index three consecutive years. But most of
all, it means holding up our end of the bargain by treating customers like
family and providing the benefits they need, when they need them most
and fast. Within the pages of this report we will relate the work of our
great people who make it all happen. Because as our company founders
taught us more than 50 years ago, if you take care of the employees, they
will take care of the business.

Sincerely,

Daniel P. Amos
Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
2

Corporate Ci tizenship Report

Duck Governance
In the top 150 of Fortune 500 companies annual

publicly traded company in the United States to provide

revenues of $23.9 billion, Aflac places a high value on

a shareholder vote at our annual meeting to consider our

ethics and integrity. We call this doing business the “Aflac

processes for compensating our top level executives,

Way”. In fact, whenever a new employee is on-boarded

commonly referred to as Say-on-Pay. The initial vote was

at Aflac, they are handed a bound copy of a book called

taken and overwhelmingly approved in May of 2008.

The Aflac Way. This tome highlights and details the type

Each year since the initial vote, we have conducted a

of ethical behavior that is expected of an Aflac employee,

“Say on Pay” vote, with a higher percentage of approval

reinforcing our culture and ensuring that our employees

in 2013 than in 2008.

understand that ethics are non-negotiable.

Aflac believes strongly in our nation’s legislative and

Our company code of conduct, available on our

regulatory systems. So it is Aflac’s policy to maintain

corporate website, is the guide by which all of our

an active role in the public policy arena, but we also

employees are trained to operate. We further illuminate

understand that with our system, comes a variety of

our spirit of integrity through our internal mantra

checks and balances. We do not shy away from that

expressed in the company’s Seven Commitments to

fact. In fact, we embrace transparency, so in addition to

Customer Service, which is provided to all of our new

complying with all state and federal regulations regarding

employees as the ultimate illustration of doing business

participation in the public policy arena we take some

The Aflac Way.

additional steps to ensure that the public and regulators

This commitment to ethics, sustainability and
transparency extends from the Board level to entry
level. The current principal seven committees are Audit,

remain fully informed. In 2012, the company went beyond
SEC regulations by initiating the policy of posting political
contributions on our website at Aflac.com.

Executive, Compensation, Investment and Investment

Aflac also maintains several employee-led committees

Risk, Acquisition, Sustainability and Corporate

designed to provide up-to-date information to the

Governance.

CEO and Board of Directors in a timely fashion. These

For the Audit, Corporate Governance and Compensation
Committees, committee membership consists of only

include committees on Corporate Social Responsibility,
Sustainability Issues, Diversity and Donations.

independent directors. Bolstering Aflac’s commitment
to sustainability is the fact that the company maintains
a Sustainability Committee on its board of directors,
while also boasting an employee-led Green Committee,
which serves an advisory function to the Board, reporting
several times per year. The company has fashioned its
sustainability reporting to reflect the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) index guidelines.
Aflac identifies its primary stakeholders as policyholders,
shareholders, bond holders, suppliers, communities,
employees, associates, brokers, the environment and the
employers who offer Aflac to their workers. We maintain
constant communication with stakeholders to keep them
informed of our latest initiatives and the strength of our
company. We also listen to our stakeholders. In fact,
born out of a shareholder request, Aflac was the first

Aflac 2013

Timothy Erblich, CEO Ethisphere, Laura Kane, Aflac VP Corporate
Communications, Robert “Ben” Johnson, Aflac Director, Alex
Brigham, Executive Director Ethisphere and Jon Sullivan, Aflac
Corporate Communications celebrate Aflac’s seventh consecutive
year being named by the Ethisphere Institute as a Worlds’ Most
Ethical Company.

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
3

Corporate Citizenship Report

What it means to our customers

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Customers
The Taylor Family, North Carolina
At 18 months old, my son Trent was diagnosed with Acute-Lymphoblastic
Leukemia…. Of course, the first thoughts were for his life and his health; but once
that set in, the thoughts of the financial burden it was sure to cause started weighing
on my mind.
I received a benefit check that honestly brought me to tears when I opened it. It was
as if a huge boulder had been lifted from me and I could concentrate fully on my
son and getting him better. The benefits of having Aflac were and still are amazing to
me. My husband was actually skeptical of having the insurance and even talked to
me about canceling the policies. But after all we have been through he now is a true
believer in the company. He tells people all the time that he “Loves the Duck!”

The Kinney Family, Nebraska
After having the policy for only a few years, my 32-year-old wife was diagnosed with
a very rare form of cancer — Mesothelioma. There were no doctors around here
(Omaha, NE) that had experience dealing with this cancer and we ended up 1500
miles away for treatment. The bills piled up with traveling costs, medical bills and
time off work.
Aflac helped cover much of our costs, eliminating the financial strain from an already
stressful situation. It allowed us to worry about more important things, like getting the
best care for my wife and taking care of our family.
I’d recommend this policy to anyone considering it. Hopefully you will never find out
how valuable it can be.

Carlee Allen, Michigan
I am writing to let you know how thankful I am for Aflac. I was diagnosed with “early
onset” breast cancer in July 2007. A second opinion received in August showed the
cancer was actually advanced stage IV and had already metastasized to my bones
and lungs. My Aflac cancer insurance policy processed claims for the travel and
this second opinion.
I live in Michigan and traveled to a renowned cancer institution in Houston, Texas.
After nine chemo treatments, I was placed in a phase II trial for stem cell transplant
research. Once again, Aflac processed claims for all identified/listed benefits in my
plan. I spent 21 days in the hospital. Upon the completion of my stem cell transplant,
I remained in remission for over 3 years.
In November 2011, my cancer recurred and, once again, Aflac began processing
claims. Aflac continues to send benefit checks for these claims today. Easily. Hasslefree. No long, drawn-out paperwork. No additional stress in my life. I am truly blessed
to have Aflac which I thought, “I was never going to need or receive any benefits.”
Cancer does not run in my family so the original policy I applied for was seemingly
unnecessary.
I cannot thank my Aflac agent, Kris Horton, enough. Her continued reference to the one
in eight statistics was – unfortunately – correct. I am the one.
Within two years of my diagnosis, my husband was also diagnosed with cancer.
Again, Aflac processed claims for him as well. IF there is any doubt about
coverage or payable benefits, Aflac has gone above and beyond my expectations.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
5

Corporate Ci tizenship Report

What it means to our shareholders

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Shareholders
Aflac was founded by brothers John, Paul and Bill Amos
in 1955. Although we have since grown to be a Fortune 500
international company with thousands of staff members, we
have managed to maintain the mutual trust and commitment
to common values that are the ideals of a family business.
We have done this by hiring and rewarding people who
share our beliefs in honesty, fairness, compassion and
responsibility. We create a workplace where individuals can
thrive not only professionally, but personally, supported
by corporate programs and a corporate culture that
encourages work-family balance, education and community
involvement. In turn, the people who work for Aflac inspire us to Aflac founders (l. to r.) Paul S. Amos, John B. Amos
and William Amos
continually improve the value we return to our customers and
shareholders, the opportunities we offer to our employees and
independent agents and the contributions we make to our communities. Aflac is proud to be consistently recognized
as a leader in ethics, diversity and corporate responsibility. The three Amos brothers started the tradition; thousands of
Aflac employees keep it going strong.

on recovery, not financial stress. In the United States,
Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable
insurance. In Japan, Aflac is the number one life insurance
company in terms of individual policies in force. Aflac
insurance products provide protection to more than 50
million people worldwide.
Keeping our promises to our policyholders is the core of
our business. In 2013, we identified four strategic pillars to
help focus our efforts on new opportunities to spread our
wings and remain the leading provider of supplemental
products to businesses and policyholders:
When Japan opened its doors in 1974, it set off a course
of events that has made Aflac in the top 150 of Fortune 500
companies with nearly $24 billion in annual revenue. Aflac
is now the number one life insurance company in terms of
individual policies in force in all of Japan.

A Special Breed
When a policyholder gets sick or hurt, Aflac pays cash
benefits fast. And it pays those benefits directly to the
policyholder or named beneficiary. Individuals can use
the cash to help pay for unexpected expenses resulting
directly from illness or injury, or for everyday things like
groceries, utilities and the mortgage. For more than 57
years, Aflac insurance policies have helped provide a
safety net and given policyholders the opportunity to focus

Aflac 2013

•
•
•
•

Improve and expand our distribution
Focus our product innovation
Own our customer experience
Strengthen our low-cost model

We believe focusing on these strategic pillars will afford us
the opportunity to increase our presence in the voluntary
worksite markets, improve customer service so vital to our
policyholders and enhance profitability going forward.
We’re very proud that outside observers such as
FORTUNE, Black Enterprise and Ethisphere have
repeatedly praised our corporate ethics. We’re prouder
still that our policyholders and employees demonstrate
their confidence in Aflac with high rates of renewal and low
rates of turnover. It is to them, after all, that Aflac’s integrity
matters most.

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
7

Corporate Ci tizenship Report

Taking Care of the Nest Egg
At Aflac, we take our obligation to maintain financial
stability very seriously. We know thousands of people
are depending on us.
We primarily invest for the long term and our large fixed
income portfolio is diversified by industry and geography.
Our investment objectives are driven by careful consideration
of our liabilities and capital requirements to achieve the best
returns with a responsible eye toward quality, diversification
and liquidity. Aflac is rated AA– by Standard & Poor’s, Aa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, A+ (Superior) by A.M. Best and
AA- by R&I for financial strength.
Aflac was first listed on the New York State Stock
Exchange in 1974. Then Chairman and CEO John Amos
traveled to New York to witness the initial listing.

2013 marked the 24th consecutive year in which we
met or exceeded our operating earnings objective.
This is the primary financial objective that we use internally
to assess the growth of our business, believing this
measure best exemplifies our management and business
performance and that achieving it is the principal driver of
creating value for our shareholders over the long term.
Additionally, 2013 was the 31st consecutive year in which
Aflac increased its annual dividend to shareholders. Over
the last 10 years, Aflac’s total return to shareholders,
including reinvested dividends, was 126.0%. Investors
who purchased 100 shares of Aflac stock for $1,100 in
1955 and held on to them had 187,980 shares worth
about $12.6 million as of the end of 2013. Those same
investors received $266,932 in dividends alone in 2012.
At Aflac, we work hard to maintain our financial strength for
the sake of our policyholders, investors and employees.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
8

Corporate Ci tizenship Report

What it means to our employees

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Our Employees

In January, Aflac Chairman and CEO Dan Amos
proudly accepted the Salute to Greatness Award
from the MLK Center on behalf of Aflac.

We take care of our employees and independent agents so they can
take care of our customers. We offer excellent benefits, competitive
salaries, award-winning training, plentiful advancement opportunities,
on-site childcare, college scholarships, appreciation events and service
awards. For the sixteenth year in a row, Aflac has been named one of
FORTUNE’s Best Companies to Work For. We work hard to keep our
place on that list because we want to keep our great employees and
independent agents working hard for Aflac. We know that a significant
part of our success is in our diversity, so we are proud that our company
is among the leading companies for diversity. In fact, in 2013, Aflac was
recognized by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Center in Atlanta with their
Salute to Greatness Award.

of nutritious selections – all of which are right on our
campus.
Financial security is important to us. It’s what we provide
to our customers and we want our family feeling secure in
knowing that they will have that nest egg they need when
the time comes to retire. We provide a generous 401(k)
plan, including a company match for a portion of the funds
each employee saves. We also have an employee stock
purchase program, profit-sharing bonuses and rewards for
tenure and superior performance.

One great benefit at Aflac is the fully equipped fitness
centers on campus. We are a company that helps people
when they are sick or hurt, but we want our employees to
stay healthy and enjoy life both inside and outside of Aflac.

Employee Benefits
A happy and healthy employee is a good employee. That’s
why Aflac is committed to ensuring that the members of
our family receive a comprehensive benefits package that
includes health, dental and life insurance. We also provide
our employees with the Aflac cancer policy, free of charge.
We have two on-site acute care clinics to serve our
employees and our Health Services department sponsors
an annual health fair, flu shots and health screenings
for employees and their families. And if fitness is one
of your goals, we have miles of scenic walking trails,
fitness centers and cafeterias stocked with a wide variety

Aflac 2013

We talk a lot about family, because to us, each and every
employee is, well, family. And to help employees balance
their work life and family life, we offer helpful benefits like
flextime, compressed workweeks and telecommuting. We
also fund college and graduate school scholarships for
employees and their children and grandchildren.
Mentoring and continuing education is part of Aflac’s
culture. Our 4,600-plus employees have access to
Harvard Manage Mentor, a collection of online learning
tools that offer expert instruction on business topics such
as budgeting, strategic thinking and presentation skills.
In addition, online courses are offered for professional,
technical, and administrative employees. These courses
include computer training, job-specific training, industry
education to encourage career advancement and a multilevel management training program.
Aflac also hosts an annual Employee Appreciation Week
(EAW) to acknowledge employees for their hard work and
contributions throughout the year. Each employee

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
10

Corporate Citizenship Report

receives an appreciation gift and has the opportunity to
win various prizes, including cash, stock and trips. Family
Days at local attractions such as Callaway Gardens
are also part of the EAW festivities. In addition, special
luncheons are given to honor those who have achieved
tenure milestones.
The Aflac Way Recognition Program awards are
presented to employees who have been recognized
by their peers, customers and leaders for outstanding
contributions to the business. Quality Circles Rewards
are given to employees who have identified problems
and helped resolve them through the Quality Circle
program. Aflac Bright Ideas Program awards are given
to those whose suggestions have improved the quality
of customer service, made work processes more
efficient, benefited Aflac’s competitive position in the
marketplace, reduced costs, eliminated rework, or
increased employee morale.

It was “Mustache Monday” during Employee Appreciation Week
and Doug Brown, 2nd Vice President of Aflac’s Transformation
office had the honor of calling out the winning names for some
great prizes…An Aflac EAW tradition!

Employee Diversity
We are proud of our diverse workforce. Our Diversity
Council finds many opportunities to reinforce and
celebrate the richness created by our differences. During
our annual Diversity Week, for instance, fun activities
such as the “Quacktastic Race” and “Taste of Diversity”
increase awareness and appreciation for diversity. This
year, Diversity Council introduced a monthly Intranet
“Take 5” article, which features executive management
addressing diversity related topics. We have been hailed
year after year by Black Enterprise Magazine and LATINA
Style. In face, LATINA Style lauded Aflac as a Top 50,
Best Company for Latinas for the 14th time in 2013. Learn
more about Aflac diversity here.

Diverse backgrounds create diverse thinking. The mission
of Aflac’s Diversity Council is to ensure that Aflac remains an
inclusive work environment and that our workforce continues
to approach challenges from multiple perspectives.

Duck Friends
If you are one of Aflac’s many partners, then our Strategic
Sourcing and Procurement (SS&P) department expects
you to hold to the same standards as we do. Our team

Aflac 2013

seeks to work with suppliers who share our values of
diversity and sustainability, because if you are working
with the Duck, you are representing our values.

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
11

Corporate Citizenship Report

In 2013, Aflac conducted its first ever Supplier Diversity Summit, enabling minority-owned
businesses to appear before Aflac IT executives and demonstrate how they could provide
value to the company.

Diversity
We crave diversity in our own ranks and with those we do
business with. That’s why we increased our spending on
ensuring supplier diversity to 8% in 2013.

supplier diversity levels in other departments of Aflac.
Learn more about Aflac’s Supplier Diversity
program here.

Also in 2013, we conducted the first Supplier Diversity
Summit for the Aflac Information Technology (IT)
department. High level officers in our IT unit attended a
summit, held at our headquarters in Georgia, in which
minority owned companies were invited to present
themselves in hopes of gaining Aflac’s business. To be
certain, just being minority owned is not enough to gain
our business, but this forum provided some businesses
with opportunities they might not have had. In fact the
team selected two of the six suppliers showcased during
the Summit to become new IT suppliers. The Supplier
Diversity Summit concept will be used to improve

This year, Aflac has also been recognized by the Human
Rights Campaign (HRC), which works to achieve equality
for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans
and represents a force of more than 1.5 million members
and supporters nationwide. HRC announced that Aflac’s
score went from 30 to 75 out of a possible 100 on its
Best Places to Work 2014 Corporate Equality Index.
Aflac and its employees created a video for the “Its Gets
Better” campaign, to give hope to LGBT youth facing
harassment. The video, which features personal
messages from Aflac employees, can be viewed here.

Aflac Diversity Statistics

Aflac 2013

•

68%

employees are women.

•

19%

officers are minority.

•

44%

employees are minority.

•

49%

management

•

33%

employees are minority women.

•

24%

officers are women.

23%

management

•

(supervisor level and above) are women.
(supervisor level and above) are minority.

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
12

Corporate Citizenship Report

Employee Engagement Activities
Through open communication and frequent celebration,
we show our employees how much we value their
contribution to the company. Here is a sampling of our
activities from 2013.
Talk-the-Talk with Leadership: Forum for Executive
Management to discuss current topics with employees.
Employees have an opportunity to pose questions to
company leaders, including Paul Amos, president Global
Operations, Michael Zuna, executive vice president,
chief marketing officer and Teresa White, executive vice
president, chief operations officer.
Employee Appreciation Week which includes daily
prize drawings, a tenure luncheon with top executives,
company paid family outings like movies or a trip to Six
Flags over Georgia. The week culminates with a huge
EAW Friday celebration at the Cunningham Center on
the Columbus State University campus.

Aflac President, Global Operations, Paul S. Amos II rallies
and informs employees with his Talk-the-Talk forum at Aflac
Headquarters in Georgia.

A variety of events are held throughout the year
including the annual holiday party, Diversity Week
celebration, a family-fun tower lighting event for the
holidays, an employee Halloween costume contest,
our annual celebration for making FORTUNE’s list
of 100 Best Companies to Work For and our very
popular Fanatic Football Friday. All of these events are
designed to build team spirit and help express Aflac’s
appreciation for its employees.

Aflac is headquartered in Columbus,
Georgia and Aflac Group Insurance is
located in Columbia, South Carolina.
With both of our main headquarters
located in SEC territory, is it any
wonder that EAW had a bit of a football
flavor in 2013?

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
13

Corporate Citizenship Report

What it means to our communities

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Our Communities
Aflac is committed to being a partner with the community.
As a company and as individuals, we strive to be good
neighbors. Since 1995, Aflac has raised and donated more
than $87 million to the Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders
Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta, a national leader
in the research and treatment of childhood cancer and blood
disorders. In 2013, the Aflac team in the U.S. and Japan
contributed nearly $10 million for the treatment and research
of childhood cancer.
Much of Aflac’s support for the Center comes from
individuals. Each month, Aflac’s independent sales agents
contribute more than $425,000 from their commission checks
to the Center. Aflac employees find many imaginative ways to
raise funds and encourage the patients.
In 2013, Aflac’s philanthropy team renewed its commitment
to the fight against pediatric cancer with its new Duckprints
campaign. Duckprints is the company’s way of championing
individuals who stand out in the ongoing battle against
children’s cancer, which remains the number one cause
of death by illness for people under the age of 15. The
company hopes to raise attention for childhood cancer and
increase donations to the cause. In 2013, Duckprints events
were conducted in Atlanta and New York, honoring heroes
such as Dr. William G. Woods, Director of the Aflac Cancer
Center and former Atlanta Braves pitcher John Smoltz,
who has for many years, supported children facing cancer
without seeking the spotlight for his good deeds.
In New York, the Cohen Children’s Medical Center on Long
Island played host to our second Duckprints event, which
honored two of their top medical providers along with a
patient whose family has taken their challenges with cancer
and turned them into a way to give back to the community.

Aflac CEO Dan Amos and Aflac Foundation President
Kathelen Amos unveil the inaugural Duckprints wall
honoring baseball star John Smoltz and Dr. William G.
Woods at the Aflac Cancer Center in Atlanta.

Hollywood actor Peter Facinelli (l) of the Twilight Saga
movies helped honor Leukemia patient Morgan Zuch,
Nurse Abigail Slaven and Dr. Jonathan D. Fish as
Duckprints award recipients at Cohen Children’s Medical
Center on Long Island.

To help raise funds and awareness around America’s unsung heroes, Aflac is asking people to become
socially active in the cause. The company is donating $2 to the Aflac Cancer Center for any Duckprintsrelated social actions taken on various social mediums up to $2 million through December. Related social
actions include:
Twitter - $2 for any tweet using the hashtag
#duckprints or for retweets of duckprints
related tweets
Facebook - $2 for any share of specific posts
related to duckprints or using #duckprints

YouTube Views - $2 per every view of the
duckprints videos on YouTube
ShareThis - $2 for every duckprints related
video shared

To support the Aflac Duckprints initiative, Aflac also created a new website called aflacduckprints.com
that enables users to nominate unsung heroes in their community who have made a difference in the
lives of children and families facing cancer. To see more about the Aflac Duckprints campaign,
please click here.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
15

Corporate Citizenship Report

Holiday Duck
Once again, our Holiday Duck raised money and spread
cheer. This year’s duck, resplendent in bright green ski
gear, was designed by 14-year-old Aflac Center patient
Michelle Nguyen. Michelle won a design contest held
at the Aflac Cancer Center and as a result, she was
pleased to see her colorful design transformed into
reality. Thousands of her ducks were sold in Macy’s
stores throughout the country and online, with the net
profits from the duck going to support children’s cancer
treatment programs in the area where the duck was sold.

1 day

1 week

No-Shave November: Hair for a Cause
Chris Graham of Aflac’s Marketing team in Georgia, took NoShave November to the next level this year. He put down his razor
to help raise money for a special little girl he heard about through
a local church group. Her name is Jaya and she was diagnosed
with osteosarcoma bone cancer. The idea for this project for Jaya
came from Jay Coull (Aflac Telecom Engineer) and his wife Nikki
through their local church. They raised $7,000 to help Jaya and
her family during difficult times.

About Jaya
Tammy, Jaya’s mother, is a single mom who is struggling to
make ends meet. She has beat homelessness and is fighting to
overcome poverty. Tammy and her two teenage daughters live
in a small house that needs some repairs. Tammy does not have
transportation, but manages to clean houses for a living by taking
the bus, a cab or arranging for a ride.
Jaya was a fun, happy, healthy teenage girl! She was asymptomatic
until July when she hurt her knee playing basketball. A month later,
the pain was more intense and swelling was obvious. She went
back to the ER where she was given an x-ray that showed a lot of
density in her bone along with a soft tissue mass. She was sent
to Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta where she was diagnosed with
osteosarcoma bone cancer.
She is currently undergoing chemotherapy treatments to shrink
the tumor. She will have to have bone replacement surgery and will
have to learn how to walk again. With no transportation, she and her
mother have to rely on Medicaid transportation or family members
to get them to and from Atlanta. The added costs associated with
being in the hospital and Tammy not being home to work has put a
big financial strain on this family.
The No-Shave November proceeds helped to support them and
make this challenging and emotional time just a little easier.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
16

Corporate Citizenship Report

SurvivorLink

Survivor Link – Going Beyond the Cure

LINK TO CARE AFTER CANCER

A portion of the support provided to the Aflac Cancer Center helps fund the
hospital’s ground-breaking Survivor Link program.

Learn

According to the American Cancer Society, there’s some good news about
childhood cancer, which is that the vast majority of children with cancer will
survive for many years. While cancer remains the leading cause of death by
disease for children under the age of 15, more kids are living; more families
remain whole; and more days once filled with grief are spent celebrating life.

Store
Share
EVERY YEAR

10,400
CHILDREN

UNDER THE AGE OF

FIFTEEN
ARE DIAGNOSED
WITH CANCER

HOWEVER

OVERALL
CURE RATE

66%

OF ADULT
SURVIVORS
HAD AT LEAST

ONE
CHRONIC
CONDITION FROM
LATE EFFECTS
OF CANCER

FOR PEDIATRIC
CANCER IS

80%

But for many children, survival is only half the battle. Certain health problems
called late effects often arise, including heart, lung and kidney issues. Often,
healthcare providers for adults who have survived childhood cancer are in the
dark as to what treatments were used and what the effects may have been.
This makes selecting the proper protocols for adulthood healthcare very difficult.
Drs. Lillian Meacham and Ann Mertens at the Aflac Cancer Center in Atlanta
understand these effects better than most and have dedicated their careers
to helping young people survive the cure as well as the cancer itself. Endowed
in part by Aflac, it is the only statewide web-based data source for childhood
cancer survivors.
Click here to find out more about SurvivorLink or cut and paste
www.cancersurvivorlink.org into your internet browser.

CANCERSURVIVORLINK.ORG

Treating childhood cancer is often
harsh and comes with long term
effects. Since its inception in 2001,
Aflac has been a supporter of the
Aflac Cancer Survivor Program,
Habitat
forin not
Humanity
investing
only the cure for
pediatric cancer but the longquality
of life
for survivors.
Everyterm
year,
Aflac
employees
help build a Habitat for
SurvivorLink™ is the only statewide
Humanity
House
in
Columbus,
database of its kind that provides GA. Habitat for Humanity
to information
houseseasy
areaccess
built with
volunteer labor, including that of the
doctors need to treat the life-long
futurehealthcare
homeowner.
Afl
employees really help speed the
needs of ac
pediatric
cancer survivors into adulthood.

project along. According to Brinkley Pound, Executive
Director, Columbus Area Habitat for Humanity, “an Aflac
build works like no other build that Habitat does. That is, this
home is built in a month. It normally takes about a year.”
Building a Habitat House is a perfect fit for our community
building efforts. Aflac’s core mission is to help families when
they are going through challenging times. Working with
Habitat for Humanity exemplifies this notion by providing a
safe and affordable home for a family in the community. You
can see the Aflac team in action here.

Aflac employees love helping build a better community. Each
year dozens of people volunteer to use their carpentry skills
to build a new home for a neighbor through the Habitat for
Humanity program.

Christmas is for Kids (CIFK)
In our annual CIFK campaign, Aflac employees raise money and then buy, wrap and distribute Christmas gifts for
needy local children. This year, they raised $32,082 and gave presents to 681 children.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
17

Corporate Citizenship Report

In 2013, Aflac sponsored a new bookmobile for the
Columbus, Georgia area. It visited our campus recently
and lucky readers from Aflac’s Imagination Station childcare
facility got a preview. Aflac CEO Dan Amos made a surprise
visit and read the children a story.

Aflac’s Partners in Education with Columbus High School (Georgia)
Aflac is involved throughout the year with our Partners in
Education at Columbus High School. Aflac employees
donate both time and money to provide supplies and
services to the kids in the hometown high school.
We grant scholarships, make awards to outstanding
students and teachers, coach students in interviewing

skills, support clubs and activities and donate printing
and photography services. The CHS students help us,
too: in 2013, they raised $1,140 for the Christmas is for
Kids program. We are happy to help our Columbus
Blue Devils “be amazing”!

Ducks with Hearts in Columbia, SC
In Columbia, SC, Aflac partnered with United Way to renovate and equip
the Children’s Garden, a high quality early education center for children
in need. We sorted donations, assembled car seats, wiped walls, painted
and generally got the place ready to be the scene of developmentally
appropriate discovery and fun. Our work at the Children’s Garden daycare
center was just one of our many volunteer efforts.
Aflac employees are never shy about sharing the holiday spirit. This year
in our Columbia, South Carolina Aflac Group Insurance offices, teams got
together to stuff as many stockings as they can for the Salvation Army. Of
course, as the company that prides itself on being there for people in their
time of need, our goal is to make sure that no child goes without for the
holidays.
For the Harvest Hope food bank, teams of Aflac employees created
hundreds of “care packages” for needy families. The year-round mission of
Harvest Hope Food Bank is to provide for the needs of hungry people by
gathering and sharing quality food with dignity, compassion and education.
In addition, Aflac Group’s Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
walkathon participation was so successful that the team received a Golden
Sneaker Award for Excellence in Fundraising.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
18

Corporate Citizenship Report

Ducks with Hearts in Omaha, NE
Employees in the Omaha, Nebraska Customer Service
Center work hard throughout the year to raise money
for one special cause: making the holidays a little
brighter for children at the University of Nebraska
Medical Center. Each quarter, teams of employees
organize fundraising events for the UNMC, including
lunch fundraisers, a coin war, 50/50 raffle, blue jean
week, Husker ticket raffle and a dunk tank.
At the end of the year, employees volunteer their time
to wrap and deliver the gifts to the children at the
hospital. This year, employees purchased more than
233 gifts for 44 children.
Bob Ottman, vice president of Customer Assurance
in Omaha Nebraska is about to take one for the team,
serving as the wet master of ceremonies for the dunk tank
which helped raise money for the University of Nebraska
Medical Center.

Ducks with Hearts in Albany, NY
No one should ever go hungry in New York’s capital city. That’s
why our team in Albany volunteered to collect donations for the
Holiday Hunger Appeal sponsored by the Regional Food Bank
of Northeastern New York.
You never know who might show up for the annual March of
Dimes Walk for Babies in Albany. Volunteers give hope to the
babies born too soon or sick. The money you raise supports
programs in the community that help moms have healthy, fullterm pregnancies.
In addition to volunteering at the Making Strides Against Breast
Cancer walk, Albany based employees support the American
Cancer Society through it’s “Bark For Life” event. Cancer
fighting canines and their human companions walk to raise
money for research and patient services.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
19

Corporate Citizenship Report

What it means to our environment

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Our Environment
Aflac SmartGreen®

•

As part of our commitment to improve the quality of life
in our community, Aflac continually strives to reduce
our impact on the environment and promote a “green”
consciousness. We are working hard to implement
innovative and responsible practices across our company
to reduce our carbon footprint, ensure efficient use of
resources and help our employees be good stewards of
our natural surroundings. We are also providing tools that
enable our policyholders to reduce their impact on the
environment. In recognition of our efforts, we have been
included on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for three
consecutive years.
The Aflac Board of Directors Sustainability Committee
leads our program, which is called Aflac SmartGreen.
Our SmartGreen philosophy can be broken down into
five key areas:
•
•
•
•
•

Business Operations
Facilities Management
Waste Management
Employee Engagement
Strategic Sourcing and Procurement

Cleaning up the waste! On Earth Day Aflac’s Green
Committee dumped a truck load of waste, which amounted
to one day of waste at Aflac facilities. To demonstrate how
even a sustainable company can improve, they asked teams
of employees to sift through the trash, separating recyclable
waste from the trash. A harvest of recyclable materials were
found and removed from the trash sent to the landfill.

Business Operations
We are always looking for ways to streamline our business operations, moving communications and policy
services on-line whenever possible.

On-line Services
We provide reports, invoices, statements, policies and other
customer communications electronically for our home office
employees, sales associates, policyholders and payroll
accounts. In 2013, we also transitioned the employee
benefits guide from printed to online access only.
In 2013, we saved more than 19,171,600 sheets of paper
and over $2,400,000 by using Electronic Submission
Channels, online servicing tools and targeted paper
reduction efforts. Our e-Policy system, which enables
policyholders to receive policies electronically, saved
over $928,000.

The sales force uses the Aflac SmartApp Next
Generation software to process 92 percent of our new
policy applications. More than 72 percent of this new
business is processed and issued with no manual
intervention by corporate employees. Not only does
this save paper, but it also streamlines service for our
policyholders.
Additionally, 84,000 sales associates have their
commission statements delivered electronically and
more than 76 percent of system generated reports are
designed to be viewed online rather than printed.

Teleconferencing
In 2013, an average of 2,900 meetings per month took place via web-enabled teleconference. Teleconferencing
not only helps the company save travel expenses, but also increases the productivity of teams spread out across
the U.S. and Japan by facilitating frequent communication.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
Limited 16-06-14
21

Corporate Citizenship Report

Carpool / Telework / Alternative Work Schedules
We have partnered with the Clean Air Campaign to
encourage “clean commuting.” Our clean commuters
receive incentives to share rides or reduce trips to office
buildings. We have designated special parking spaces
on each campus as an incentive for our carpoolers,
motorcycle riders and hybrid or electric car owners.
Aflac Vice President of Facilities and Green Committee Chairman
Alfred Blackmar (l.) provides Claims Research Analyst Samantha
Williams with her certificate for being the first person to reach
25,000 of clean commuting designated by the Clean Air
Campaign. She and her husband Jamison, a senior broker
analyst, carpool to work every day to ensure they are doing their
part to keep our air clean.

Print Operations
Our marketing brochures and other mass-produced literature are printed on paper from Forest Stewardship Councilcertified forests. In 2013, 84 percent of our printed materials were printed on FSC-certified paper, which puts us well
on the way to reaching our goal of printing 90 percent or more of our printed marketing materials on FSC-certified paper.

Facilities Management
Our goal is to continually monitor and reduce resource
and utility consumption. We have earned ENERGY STAR
recognition for 84 percent of all eligible corporate property,
including the building that houses our data center.
Additionally, we followed the U.S. Green Building
Council’s LEED for Commercial Interiors guidance in
the renovation of a five-story main campus building and
received gold level certification upon completion.

Ernst & Young audited Aflac’s Scope I and II emissions
reports and certified them with a letter of attestation.
To improve our standings we have subscribed to the
Carbon Disclosure Project to allow us to benchmark our
resource use against the world’s largest collection of
self-reported climate change data.

ISO 50001
Aflac recognizes that superior results are best
achieved through a mindset and discipline of continual
improvement. This is why Aflac became the first insurance
company in the United States to be ISO 50001 Energy
Management System registered.
ISO 50001 represents the latest best-practice thinking
in energy management. The standard outlines what
organizations need to develop and implement to
control and reduce energy use. The international
standard outlines energy management practices that
are considered to be the best globally and provides a

Aflac 2013

framework of requirements. These requirements help
organizations to develop a policy for more efficient use
of energy, fix targets and objectives to meet the policy,
use data to better understand and make decisions
about energy use, measure the results, review how
well the policy works and continually improve energy
management.
Through use of an internationally recognized energy
management system, we are confident that we can
further reduce energy consumption and lessen our
environmental impact.

CorporateRegister.com
22 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Citizenship Report

Energy Savings
Through sustained and deliberate energy-saving
measures, we’ve reduced energy consumption by
38 percent per square foot since 2007.
As buildings are remodeled, we implement energy
savings ideas such as task light motion sensors in
cubicles and motion sensors in restrooms, copy rooms
and parking garage. Our heating and cooling systems
are powered down during off hours, as are the lights
in our parking lots. In 2012 we implemented software
to power down nearly 5,000 computer monitors at all
corporate offices at night to further reduce energy.

Styrofoam 8,560

As of December 2012, 64 percent of our server
environment was virtualized. This allows for fewer
physical servers, better space management, reduced
power consumption and significant cost savings. In
addition, the IT department raised the temperature
in the data center, reducing energy usage and costs
associated with air cooling.
Since 2007 Aflac has increased its square footage by
more than 10 percent yet we’ve realized a consistent
reduction in Scope I and II carbon emissions each year
through 2013.

E-Waste 90,679

Cardboard 114,621

Aluminum 8,577
Plastics 17,501
Paper
Plastics
Aluminum
Cardboard
Styrofoam
• Overall waste to landﬁll increased 1%

Construction

• Paper and cardboard decreased by 11% and 38%, respectively
E-Waste

• Food waste was reduced by 24,4440 pounds

Paper 1,217,529

Where has Aflac reduced its
consumption and waste in 2013?

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
23 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Citizenship Report

Waste Management
Aflac works to minimize the amount of waste generated
by our operations and to recycle as much as we can of
the waste that we do produce. Our recycling efforts have
increased from 57 percent of all solid waste in 2009 to
70 percent in 2013, annually diverting approximately one
and a half million pounds of waste from the landfill.
In 2009 we partnered with DART, our polystyrene food
container supplier, to lease and install a foam densifier.
Employees and the café management on the Columbus
campuses separate polystyrene food and drink
containers from the waste stream. These are compacted
into 40-pound cores and shipped to Michigan, where
they are reduced to pellets and reused to make hard
plastic products like CD cases, rulers, outdoor furniture
and decking. We are using an ORCA food digester that
turns food waste from the company’s business cafeteria
into gray water, which can be disposed of through the

city sewage system. The food digester is expected
to divert up to 40,000 pounds of food waste from the
landfill each year.
Our print operations team uses a vacuum system that
vents paper cuttings from the workroom floor to a
paper baler located in the loading dock. The system
frees up floor space and helps maintain a clean
production environment, supporting the company’s
lean manufacturing 5S initiative. It also increases the
revenue coming from recycling. With the new system we
generate three to four bales of scrap every day, weighing
approximately 1,200 pounds each. These are recycled on
a weekly basis.
We also recycle plastic, aluminum, paper, polystyrene,
newspaper, magazines, ink cartridges, batteries and
fluorescent light bulbs.

Recycling is a very important pollution-prevention activity that reduces our burden on the environment and
makes Aflac a better, more responsible neighbor in our community. Aflac encourages employees to recycle
paper products and much more, including:
• Newspaper

• Computer equipment

• Iron

• Cardboard

• Pallets

• Batteries

• Fluorescent Lamps

• Plastic bottles

• Carpet

• Toner and ink jet cartridges

• Aluminum

• Polystyrene

• Microfilm and recording tape

• Copper

• Ceiling tiles

• Steel

Our recycling program is already reaping rewards for our business and the environment. Not only does
recycling help us reduce our business costs, but it also provides savings that you just cannot put a price on.
For example, reducing our consumption and waste stream creates savings of:
• 1,217,529 pounds
(609 tons) of paper
• 10,349 trees
• 1,218 barrels of oil

Aflac 2013

• 4,261,352 gallons of water
• 36,526 lbs. of air pollution

• 2,495,934 kWh of electricity—
enough to power the average
home for 84,073 days

• 1,948 cubic yards of
landfill space

CorporateRegister.com
24 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Citizenship Report

Employee Engagement
Of all our environmental programs and initiatives,
engaging employees can have the biggest impact. The
Green Committee, now in its sixth year, is made up of
employees representing every corporate office. The
committee is responsible for developing programs and
initiatives that raise awareness of Aflac’s commitment to
the environment.

E-waste Recycling Drives, held frequently at the
Columbus and Nebraska offices, encourage employees
to use the appropriate disposal methods for personal
electronic waste, keeping more than 14,000 pounds of
electronic waste and potentially hazardous materials out
of our landfills. Additionally, in 2013 the IT Division recycled
more than 63,000 pounds of electronic equipment.

The Green Committee sponsors events throughout
the year to educate and encourage an environmentally
friendly and responsible lifestyle.

Help the Hooch is an annual clean-up day to police
the streambeds to prevent garbage from contaminating
the Chattahoochee River. Employees and their families
participate in this community event as an Aflac team.

Through the Arbor Day Tree Give Away, the committee, in
cooperation with Trees Columbus, gave more than 650 free
trees to employees. This initiative helped Trees Columbus
fulfill its mission to build and maintain the tree canopy in
Columbus. Employees in Omaha, NE, Albany, NY and
Columbia, SC, were also able to sign up for free trees.
The semi-annual Free Cycle Event enables employees
to donate, trade and reuse office supplies, saving dollars
and redistributing inventory. Since the initiative began
in 2009, we have avoided the need to purchase over
$60,000 worth of new office supplies.
At the annual Earth Day Celebration, local
organizations and businesses demonstrate products,
tools and community programs that make green-living
a little easier. This event was held in all four major office
locations of the company.

Each year Aflac conducts e-Waste drives where we typically
recycle about 4-5,000 pounds of electronic waste.

To assist in green initiatives the Green Committee
enlists volunteers from our Green Team, a larger group
of employees who are dedicated to the sustainability
initiatives developed by the Green Committee. The
Green Team volunteers at various programs and events,
offers ideas to the employee committee leaders and
provides an on-site sustainability presence in all of
Aflac’s buildings to further the committee’s goals.
The activities, benefits and accomplishments described
here are representative of our overall commitment to
environmental stewardship. By constantly evaluating
and embracing the most environmentally responsible
policies, procedures and technologies, we strive to
continually expand the positive impact of our Aflac
SmartGreen philosophy.

Aflac volunteers get their feet wet cleaning up the
Chattahoochee River. It’s an annual event that means
a lot to the community and to the volunteers.

Sustainability
Aflac was rated in the 80th Percentile for Supply Chain
Management by the 2013 Dow Jones Sustainability
Index – North America List. Also in 2013, Aflac became a
founding member of the
Sustainable Purchasing
Leadership Council (SPLC).
The mission of the SPLC is
to support and recognize
purchasing leadership

Aflac 2013

that accelerates the transition to a prosperous and
sustainable future. Aflac’s engagement with the Council’s
members and programs will help Aflac purchasers better
understand the social, environmental and economic
impacts of their purchases, so that they can modify their
behavior to become more sustainable. SPLC will help
Aflac identify and apply existing leadership standards
and approaches to improve our purchasing behavior and
help benchmark our progress.

CorporateRegister.com
25 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Ci tizenship Report

What it means in Japan

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

Japan
Philanthropy
Aflac is passionate about helping to fight against cancer not just in the U.S., but also internationally. Aflac Japan has
established numerous philanthropy programs that advance cancer awareness, promote early detection and support
families who have been affected by cancer. It is truly a team effort and Aflac Japan as well as its employees and agents
work together to donate both their time and resources toward helping those who are battling cancer.

Aflac Parents House
When children are diagnosed with cancer or other serious
medical conditions, they often must travel to Tokyo or
Osaka from other parts of Japan to receive ongoing
treatment. Aflac Parents Houses provide a home-awayfrom-home for pediatric patients and their families on their
arduous journey back to health. With generous donations
from Aflac Japan’s sales agents and employees, we
established the first Aflac Parents House in Tokyo in
2001. There are now two locations for Aflac Parents
House -- one in Tokyo and one in Osaka. The houses
have provided cheerful and spacious accommodations to
approximately 8,000 families of children battling cancer
and other serious diseases.

Children and families facing cancer in Japan often find the
comforts of home at Parents Houses, enabling them to focus
on getting healthy without the worries and hassles of finding
affordable lodging.

Aflac Parents House – Home Away From Home
More than 12 years ago, Madoka Ishinoda lived on
an island off the coast of Japan that didn’t have a
hospital. She traveled to Tokyo to give birth to her
beautiful daughter Murasaki. Soon after, Murasaki was
diagnosed with a serious adrenal disease, which meant
she would need chronic medical treatment in Tokyo.

locations– two in Tokyo and one in Osaka – have
helped thousands of children battling health issues,
as well as the families that support them.

Throughout a very difficult time, the heartwarming
smiles and support of the Aflac Parents House helped
provide Madoka and Murasaki with the strength
to overcome the difficult treatment journey. Today,
Murasaki Ishinoda has grown to be an energetic and
brave 12-year old girl.
The Aflac Parents House provides cheerful and
spacious accommodations where pediatric patients
and their families can stay together in a home-awayfrom-home environment while they take on the
task of fighting cancer or another serious disease.
Through generous donations from Aflac Japan’s sales
agents, employees and officers, three Parents House

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
27 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Citizenship Report

Aflac Charitable Trust Scholarship Fund for Cancer Orphans
Aflac Japan is committed to supporting youth who have lost a parent to cancer. The Aflac Charitable Trust Scholarship
Fund for Cancer Orphans was established to help high school students who have lost a parent to cancer better afford the
costs associated with attending high school. Each year, the program allocates funds to eligible recipients who have faced
economic hardship and have met specific scholastic requirements. The students are given ¥25,000 per month until their
graduation from high school toward their education and living expenses. To date, approximately 1,900 students have been
given this scholarship.

Cancer Awareness and Prevention
Aflac Japan continues to partner with national and local
governments and organizations to promote early cancer
detection and educate the public on prevention.

concerts and approximately ¥50 million has been raised

Children and families facing cancer in Japan often find the
comforts of home at Parents Houses, enabling them to
focus on getting healthy without the worries and hassles of
finding affordable lodging.

Since 2004, Aflac Japan has contributed to exhibitions

Since 1994, Aflac Japan has hosted a benefit concert
to support children and their families who are fighting
childhood cancer. The event is held in various locations
and features a variety of talented entertainers. Those who
donate at the concert receive an Aflac Duck in gratitude.
To date, over 120,000 people have participated in these

by the Gold Ribbon Campaign. The Gold Ribbon

with all proceeds from this event going toward hospitals,
research efforts and childhood cancer support groups.

focusing on cancer prevention and treatment held around
Japan. The exhibitions feature informative displays and
videos and pediatric cancer patients’ artwork sponsored
Campaign is an initiative established in the United States
to help raise awareness about pediatric cancer as well
as to raise funds for pediatric cancer research. While the
initiative is still in its early stages in Japan, support from
organizations and companies is gradually increasing.

TOMODACHI Initiative
The TOMODACHI Initiative is a joint enterprise led by the
United States Government and the U.S.-Japan Council.
The initiative invests in the next generation of Japanese
and Americans in ways that strengthen relationships
between the United States and Japan over the long-term.
Beginning in June 2013, Japan-based pediatric cancer
specialists were invited to the Aflac Cancer and Blood
Disorders Center of Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta to
observe and share best practices related to the care and
treatment of children with cancer. The Tomodachi Aflac
program lays the foundation to observe and share best
practices related to research, care and treatment protocols
of children with cancer while enhancing cooperation
between U.S. and Japanese cancer specialists.

TOMODACHI is a public-private partnership that invests in
the next generation of Japanese and Americans in ways that
strengthen relationships between the United States and Japan
over the long-term and help researchers share information
about the best treatments and protocols for childhood cancer.

Dementia Prevention Awareness
Aflac Japan sponsors the Symposium on Dementia
Prevention, which was founded in 1989 by the Mainichi
Shimbun and the Dementia Prevention Foundation. This
event provides the opportunity for citizens to openly
discuss long-term care issues and features a panel
discussion with local government officials as well as
lectures by dementia experts.
In addition, Aflac Japan sponsors the Sawayaka Welfare
Foundation, which hosts forums throughout the country
that promote the creation of local networks to help the

Aflac 2013

aging. This foundation pioneered the creation of a system
where people can earn credits by helping senior citizens
in their community. They can then exchange those credits
for help for their own elderly relatives in distant places or
for themselves in times of need.
As part of the annual Chronicles competition sponsored
by the Japan Medical Association and the Yomiuri
Shimbun, Aflac presents the Aflac Award to individuals
who write outstanding essays on their own or their
families’ health care or medical experiences.

CorporateRegister.com
28 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Citizenship Report

Social Contribution Activities
As the leading life insurance company by policies in force,
Aflac Japan is committed to the notion that giving back
to the community is an important component of our
success. Our employees and agents have been engaged
in various fundraising activities since 1993. We are proud
that approximately 80 percent of Aflac Japan employees
choose to participate in the One Hundred Club, in
which employees specify an amount they wish to have
deducted from their monthly salaries and the company
donates a matching grant. These funds are then allocated
toward the Aflac Kids Support System, Gold Ribbon

Campaign support groups and global and environmental
organizations. More than ¥21 million in 2012 and ¥22
million in 2013 were donated through the One Hundred
Club activities.
In addition to financial donations, Aflac Japan employees
and agents also give selflessly of their time. Since the
1995 Kobe earthquake, Aflac Japan has participated in
blood donation initiatives. Aflac Japan employees and
agents volunteer to help blood donation campaigns
throughout the country, especially during the month of
February when blood supply in Japan is limited.

Aflac Heartful Services
In 2011, Aflac established Aflac Heartful Services to help develop the talents, abilities and independence of individuals
with mental and physical challenges. With the guidance of team coaches, Aflac Heartful Services provide opportunities
for these employees.

Aflac Japan’s Commitment to Environmental Issues
Aflac Japan launched an initiative in 2010 to promote energy and resource conservation and since then has remained
committed to sustainability.

Aflac 2013

Action Plan

Major Initiatives

Appropriate
Temperature
Setting

•
•
•
•

Recommended cooling temperature in the summer: 28 °C (82.4 °F)
Recommended heating temperature in the winter: 23 °C (73.4 °F)
Business casual attire
Opening and closing of the blinds

Power Savings

•
•
•
•

Reduce work overtime
Turn PC off while you are away, or off frequently
Turn off power in absence zones (within the warehouses or locker rooms)
Promote the use of stairs

Water Savings

• Introduce automatic flush toilets and sinks

Use of eco-car for
gasoline savings

• Fuel–efficient vehicles (limit emissions from commercial vehicles; up to 1,500 cc)
• ECO drive recommended

Use of
eco-products

• Purchase green office supplies
• Sale of household goods for Associates
• Reuse of consumable household items

Waste reduction
and recycling

• Promotion of waste separation and recycling
• Reduce paper consumption

Source, Aflac Japan Internal Data

CorporateRegister.com
29 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Citizenship Report

Duck Honors
In 2013, Aflac attorney Christina Varghese was honored by Diversity Journal in
their September Women Worth Watching edition. Christina reminds others to
share your successes so that others may learn you’re your work. “When
we help others, joy and contentment always seems to follow,” She says.

Aflac’s Childhood Cancer Awareness team, comprised of people
in Corporate Communications, Philanthropy, Marketing and the Aflac
Cancer Center, took home the gold at the American Business Awards
as the Communications Team of the Year for their work in the fight
against childhood cancer.

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, June Howard, was selected
as a “Top Chief Accounting Officer” for 2012 by ExecRank based on two years
of research and feedback. As a financial company whose customers depend on
solid accounting practices, Aflac is pleased to have June on our team.

Highest Honors for a Life Well Lived
(l. to r.) Aflac Director Emeritus Robert L. Wright, Director Robert
“Ben” Johnson, Executive Vice President Eric Seldon, Executive
Vice President, COO Teresa White and Senior Vice President David
Pringle celebrated Aflac’s annual Amos Award. This year the award
was presented to best-selling author, educator, historian, actress,
playwright, civil-rights activist and former United States Poet Laureate,
Dr. Maya Angelou. Each year Aflac honors a distinguished American
who has achieved significance and prominence based on his or her
life’s work. Thank you Dr. Angelou for a lifetime of service!

LATINA Style 50 Companies For Latinas
Computerworld Best Places to Work in IT
FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For and World’s Most Admired Companies are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under
License. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with and do not endorse products or services of, Aflac.

Aflac 2013

CorporateRegister.com
30 Limited 16-06-14

Corporate Citizenship Report

Worldwide Headquarters | 1932 Wynnton Rd | Columbus GA, 31999
Z140250

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

3/14

CorporateRegister.com Limited 16-06-14

